Dog Woman
BY CHRIS ABANI
It’s like flying in your dreams, she said. You empty
Yourself out and just lift off. Soar. It’s like that.
 	*
Red. 	Red.	Red.
	Just that word. Sometimes.
 	*
Yang & Yin. Like twins tumbling through summer.
	He, the rooster crowing sun; desperate—afraid—
 	As only men can be.
And Yin? Let’s say she has long hair—
	No, that won’t work. If we are to believe
the ancient Chinese, she was a dog
	howling moon.
 	*
When I counted out the pills, it was a slowing down.
	Like the delay between when the car goes through
the dip and your stomach falls away—
	And won’t stop.
 	*
Of course it was because she didn’t fit my mold.
So I punished her. And why? And why? And why?
	You did it, I said. You did it.
Wouldn’t fill my world.
 	*
And eventually we all kill our mothers.
Their eyes a tenderness that doesn’t flinch
	from it. Knowing. Eventually.
 	*
What else is there?
 	*
Paula’s paintings are real. The women thick, visceral,
like stubborn cliffs the sea cannot contain—or drown.
 	*
Or dogs. And such as these drove Homer to despair—
And his cry: Oh to see! To see! To see!
 	*
So Paula says: To be a dog woman is bestial is good.
	Eating, snarling.
Utterly believable.
 	Gross.
 	*
Like when Cesaria Evora breaks your heart with a smile
	all melancholy and sea and salt.
 Assim ’m ta pidi mar
 Pa ’l leva ’me pa ’me ca voeta
And it doesn’t matter that you don’t know what
	the words mean. Some things are beyond that.
 	*
So. Tanya bought the record because Cesaria’s face
	is beautiful with all the lost love of the world
and darker than the blue of the sun setting over the Atlantic.
 	*
It’s in the angle of light washing her hair
with sun into a puddle that catches in the throat
The wood deck creaks from the weight
of all that air and sun and silence
Water chuckling in the tiny fountain in the corner
holding up the song of wind chimes and flies
And it’s all here. Fire. Water. Stone. Wood.
 	*
All caught up in Yeats and the cuckoo
	that wasn’t a real bird but cried
with all the agony of the desire for flight
hemmed by wooden wings, and springs and cogs.
I think.
 	*
Or looking for Rilke—
	How the panther is like the rage
of a doll’s soul caught in the body: but
to say: under an open window, a violin
Accomplishment though is another matter—
Just ask Baudelaire and so I
	thought I could do it.
Necromancer, necromancer, necromancer
	make me a mate
only one of my ribs pray take.
So why won’t women fit into that space?
 	*
Is that why in the photograph David plays
an inflatable lyre? Does his smile make it all artifice?
 	*
But life is this and it will not
be contained. The Igbo say:
No one can outrun their shadow.
And this is good. This is hope.
Because, or maybe, we cannot outrun love.
 	*
To drive down a road, she said. Until it stops
at the edge of the sea. An ocean vast and immense,
she said. If you are lucky, she said. It fills you.
In the Middle of Dinner
BY CHRIS ABANI
my mother put down her knife and fork,
pulled her wedding ring from its groove,
placing it contemplatively on her middle
finger. So natural was the move,
so tender, I almost didn’t notice.
Five years, she said, five years, once a week,
I wrote a letter to your father. And waited
until time was like ash on my tongue.
Not one letter back, not a single note.
She sighed, smiling, the weight gone. This
prime rib is really tender, isn’t it? she asked.
The History of Dairy Queen
BY SETH ABRAMSON
	•	1939: Hitler invades Poland.
	•	1940: First Dairy Queen® store opens in Joliet, Illinois.
	•	1949: DQ® introduces malts and shakes.
	•	1951: Banana splits appear on the DQ® menu.
	•	1953: First DQ® store opens in Canada.
	•	1955: The Dilly® Bar debuts.
	•	1957: The Dairy Queen®/Brazier® concept is introduced.
	•	1958: The Dairy Queen®/Brazier® food products are introduced.
	•	1961: The Mr. Misty® slush treat cools throats in the warm South.
	•	1962: International Dairy Queen, Inc. (IDQ) is formed.
	•	1965: First national radio advertising sends DQ® message 169 million times a week.
	•	1966: First national TV commercial, “Live a Little,” is aired.
	•	1968: The Buster Bar® Treat bursts forth.
	•	1972: First DQ® store opens in Japan.
	•	1973: Say the word “Scrumpdillyishus®!” and get a Peanut Buster® Parfait for 49 cents.
	•	1979: The DQ® system debuts in the Middle East.
	•	1980: “We Treat You Right®” tagline debuts.
	•	1985: More than 175 million Blizzard® Treats sold in its first year.
	•	1989: Dairy Queen® ranked America’s number one treat chain.
	•	1991: First DQ® store opens in Mexico.
	•	1995: DQ® Treatzza Pizza® and the Chicken Strip Basket make their debut.
	•	1999: Pecan Mudslide® Treat is introduced.
	•	1999: An operator of several DQ® locations in Massachusetts builds the world’s largest blended treat, weighing in at 5,316.6 pounds.
	•	2001: Crispy Chicken Salad is introduced.
	•	2001: The first DQ Grill & Chill® restaurant opens in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
	•	2002: Mark Cuban, owner of the NBA Dallas Mavericks, becomes manager of a DQ® location in Texas for the day.
	•	2003: The Blizzard® of the Month program kicks off.
	•	2004: The MooLatte® Frozen Coffee Flavored Beverage line debuts in Mocha, Vanilla, and Caramel flavors.
	•	2004: Award-winning Dairy Queen® commercials can be seen throughout the country in the system’s first full year of national advertising.
	•	2005: GrillBurgers™ are introduced to consumers on national TV.
	•	2005: The record is broken on June 21, when a new World’s Largest Blizzard® Treat is built in Springfield, Massachusetts. It weighs 8,224.85 pounds and is 22 feet tall.
An Open Letter to the Protesters Outside the Planned Parenthood Near My Job
BY ELIZABETH ACEVEDO
who stuck a cross in my face and told me,
“abortions are the largest genocide of black people,
God won’t forgive you for having one”:
I’m not sure how I became the finger
to pull the trigger of your mouth.
That’s a lie. I know exactly what turned
my lunch break into a firing range
and why this clay pigeon of a body
attracted your aim—
Tell me more, how you care about
“this largest genocide of black people”
when I’ve never seen you and your signs
at a Black Lives Matter protest.
Tell me, did you mourn Tamir & Aiyana & Jordan,
as hard as you celebrated the shooting of a clinic in Colorado?
Do you know how often I’ve walked by
your markers, megaphones, and mantras?
Your pickets signs and prayers that you cock like pistols
as I clench half a millennium of horror between my teeth?
You don’t know my god.
You and mineain’t on speaking terms.
My god understands the choices black women
have needed to make in the face of genocide.
My god understands how slave women plucked pearls
from between their legs rather than see them strung up by the neck.
My god doesn’t condemn us who when faced with taking claim of our bodies
do so with our chins unchained to the ground.
My god understands how for generations bodies like mine
were the choice for someone like you to make.
Do you know how many years, women like me
lived equally afraid of both hangings and hangers?
Yet we’re still here, everyday carrying ourselves.
To the Woman Crying Uncontrollably in the Next Stall
BY KIM ADDONIZIO
If you ever woke in your dress at 4am ever
closed your legs to a man you loved opened
them for one you didn’t moved against
a pillow in the dark stood miserably on a beach
seaweed clinging to your ankles paid
good money for a bad haircut backed away
from a mirror that wanted to kill you bled
into the back seat for lack of a tampon 
if you swam across a river under rain sang
using a dildo for a microphone stayed up
to watch the moon eat the sun entire 
ripped out the stitches in your heart 
because why not if you think nothing &
no one can / listen I love you joy is coming
Butter
BY ELIZABETH ALEXANDER
My mother loves butter more than I do,
more than anyone. She pulls chunks off
the stick and eats it plain, explaining
cream spun around into butter! Growing up
we ate turkey cutlets sauteed in lemon
and butter, butter and cheese on green noodles,
butter melting in small pools in the hearts
of Yorkshire puddings, butter better
than gravy staining white rice yellow,
butter glazing corn in slipping squares,
butter the lava in white volcanoes
of hominy grits, butter softening
in a white bowl to be creamed with white
sugar, butter disappearing into
whipped sweet potatoes, with pineapple,
butter melted and curdy to pour
over pancakes, butter licked off the plate
with warm Alaga syrup. When I picture
the good old days I am grinning greasy
with my brother, having watched the tiger
chase his tail and turn to butter. We are
Mumbo and Jumbo’s children despite 
historical revision, despite
our parent’s efforts, glowing from the inside
out, one hundred megawatts of butter.
How to Write the Great American Indian Novel
BY SHERMAN ALEXIE
All of the Indians must have tragic features: tragic noses, eyes, and arms.
Their hands and fingers must be tragic when they reach for tragic food.
The hero must be a half-breed, half white and half Indian, preferably
from a horse culture. He should often weep alone. That is mandatory.
If the hero is an Indian woman, she is beautiful. She must be slender
and in love with a white man. But if she loves an Indian man
then he must be a half-breed, preferably from a horse culture.
If the Indian woman loves a white man, then he has to be so white
that we can see the blue veins running through his skin like rivers.
When the Indian woman steps out of her dress, the white man gasps
at the endless beauty of her brown skin. She should be compared to nature:
brown hills, mountains, fertile valleys, dewy grass, wind, and clear water.
If she is compared to murky water, however, then she must have a secret.
Indians always have secrets, which are carefully and slowly revealed.
Yet Indian secrets can be disclosed suddenly, like a storm.
Indian men, of course, are storms. They should destroy the lives
of any white women who choose to love them. All white women love
Indian men. That is always the case. White women feign disgust
at the savage in blue jeans and T-shirt, but secretly lust after him.
White women dream about half-breed Indian men from horse cultures.
Indian men are horses, smelling wild and gamey. When the Indian man
unbuttons his pants, the white woman should think of topsoil.
There must be one murder, one suicide, one attempted rape.
Alcohol should be consumed. Cars must be driven at high speeds.
Indians must see visions. White people can have the same visions
if they are in love with Indians. If a white person loves an Indian
then the white person is Indian by proximity. White people must carry
an Indian deep inside themselves. Those interior Indians are half-breed
and obviously from horse cultures. If the interior Indian is male
then he must be a warrior, especially if he is inside a white man.
If the interior Indian is female, then she must be a healer, especially if she is inside
a white woman. Sometimes there are complications.
An Indian man can be hidden inside a white woman. An Indian woman
can be hidden inside a white man. In these rare instances,
everybody is a half-breed struggling to learn more about his or her horse culture.
There must be redemption, of course, and sins must be forgiven.
For this, we need children. A white child and an Indian child, gender
not important, should express deep affection in a childlike way.
In the Great American Indian novel, when it is finally written,
all of the white people will be Indians and all of the Indians will be ghosts.


You Mustn’t Show Weakness
BY YEHUDA AMICHAI
You mustn't show weakness
and you've got to have a tan.
But sometimes I feel like the thin veils
of Jewish women who faint
at weddings and on Yom Kippur.
You mustn't show weakness
and you've got to make a list
of all the things you can load
in a baby carriage without a baby.
This is the way things stand now:
if I pull out the stopper
after pampering myself in the bath,
I'm afraid that all of Jerusalem, and with it the whole world,
will drain out into the huge darkness.
In the daytime I lay traps for my memories
and at night I work in the Balaam Mills,
turning curse into blessing and blessing into curse.
And don't ever show weakness.
Sometimes I come crashing down inside myself
without anyone noticing. I'm like an ambulance
on two legs, hauling the patient
inside me to Last Aid
with the wailing of cry of a siren,
and people think it's ordinary speech.
Poem Beginning with a Line from Eugenio Montale 
BY BRANDON AMICO
Upon me, upon you, and over the lemons
the day shook itself into listless clouds, thin
mouths of summer, adjunct syllables draped
over the lawn chair, heat coiling in the dark
hose like venom, like smoke. In a story
there is unspooling and then spooling,
in a hose there is only throat and never
enough water. Depending on who tells
this, we were either annoyed with the sun
or angry long before it arrived. Livid
or civil. She cried first, then I cried
first. The cicadas overheard were a globe
of even thinner glass, near invisible. We had
our own names but those meant nothing; I exist
twice, I am both here and gone, but the smoke
from her cigarette left only one ruby
before it joined the thinning chorus.

The Virgin Mary Speaks 
by Lucy Anderton
I warned him about those Men.
I never raised him to be King.
Only to be what was needed --
the answer to the Innkeper. 
Perhaps it could've been different
but that night I was just too broken.
My legs were sweltering sacks of veins,
my bones cracked with the new kicking weight. 
And that punishing ride through the mountains,
they never wrote about the open sores
on my buttocks, my screaming vagina. 
And the Fear.
I stank of it. 
I had seen the collapse of birthing women.
The long crushing muscles, the shriek
of ripping skin. The invisible hammering
out of a child. And, of course, the Death. 
Yes. I had seen this. 
The men and their fearful feet
gathering in other rooms like pigeons.
Their wives unseen and splitting air
with horror and with miracles. 
Shuttered away they could hear 
the blotted screams. But they didn't witness
the bloodfury in the eyes of a woman
whose body seems determined to kill her. 
They didn't see her brain 
whipping at logic
as it slipped 
into war with sinew. 
No. They just waited for the babies to come.
Or not. They hid from the Wrath
of Birth.

So it was easy for that pigskinned
Innkeeper to turn his back
on my stricken cheeks.
My trivial lips.
And my Joseph. 
To see my Joseph beg. 
My poor confused Josef. Trying
so hard not to panic. See, 
I had told him the stories back
when we were sure we'd have hot water. 
That night he could taste the Losing of me. 
That Innkeeper jerked his careless finger
in front of Joseph's honest nose.
Don't let that Book tell you otherwise!
There was no gracious offer of a stable, 
just a slammed dusty door as he munched
back to his dinner, his desperate wife. 
Josef saw the blood from the lip I was biting,
dragged our tottering mule to that little
dank stable, hauled me down like sack, 
and hid me
behind the sheep
and the cows. 
And as I stared at their innocent
udders, their shitcaked hocks,
the world exploded. 
My mouth stuffed with straw. 
Even then, I knew
he was only mine
for those moments
in the starlight. 
And those Men came. Knocking over me
with their knees and swiveling eyes.
Kicking aside my blood, stinking
of camel, myrrh and pride. 
The Innkeeper, swaggering about
in his new celebrity. Claiming
his place in the birth
of "God's son." 
They wrote down those stories.
But they didn't ask me anything.
I was just another female
etching for them to paint in. 
So is it any wonder
that I stand here
grey and stiff.
My face placid.
My arms stuck open
like forgotten wings. 
They have made me a stony bird. 
You look to me
with your weepings,
your begging questions,
willing me to cry
one more tear
so you can shout "Miracle!"
and stifle me with your breath
and with your fingers. 
But I have cried enough.
And the only movement
you will see is the final
cracking open of these
plaster lips 
and whilst you wait
for a zoo of blessings
I will cheat you.
I will tell you the truth.
I will say to you 
"He was my son!"
racking open of these
plaster lips 
and whilst you wait
for a zoo of blessings
I will cheat you.
I will tell you the truth.
I will say to you 
"He was my son!"
HOT
BY CRAIG ARNOLD
 I’m cooking Thai—you bring the beer.
The same order, although it’s been a year
—friendships based on food are rarely stable.
 We should have left ours at the table
 where it began, and went to seed,
that appetite we shared, based less in need
than boredom—always at the cheapest restaurants,
 Thai, Szechwan, taking our chance
with gangs and salmonella—what was hot?
 The five-starred curries? The pencilled out
 entrees?—the first to break a sweat
would leave the tip. I raise the knocker, let
it fall, once, twice, and when the door is opened
 I can’t absorb, at first, what happened
—face loosened a notch, eyes with the gloss
 of a fever left to run its course
too long, letting the unpropped skin collapse
 in a wrinkled heap. Only the lips
 I recognize—dry, cracked, chapped
from licking. He looks as though he’s slept
a week in the same clothes. Come in, kick back
 he says, putting my warm six-pack
of Pale & Bitter into the fridge to chill.
 There’s no music. I had to sell
the stereo to support my jones, he jokes
 meaning the glut of good cookbooks
that cover the whole wall, in stacked milk crates
 six high, nine wide, two deep. He grates
 unripe papaya into a bowl,
fires off questions—When did you finish school?
 Why not? Still single?—Why? That dive
that served the ginger eels, did it survive?
I don’t get out much. Shall we go sometime?
 He squeezes the quarters of a lime
into the salad, adds a liberal squirt
 of chili sauce. I won’t be hurt
if you don’t want seconds. It’s not as hot
 as I would like to make it, but
you always were a bit of a lightweight.
 Here, it’s finished, try a bite.
 He holds a forkful of the crisp
green shreds for me to take. I swallow, gasp,
 choke—pins and needles shoot
through mouth and throat, a heat so absolute
 as to seem freezing. I know better
not to wash it down with ice water
—it seems to cool, but only spreads the fire—
 I can only bite my lip and swear
 quietly to myself, so caught
up in our old routine—What? This is hot?
 You’re sweating. Care for another beer?
—it doesn’t occur to me that he’s sincere
until, my eyes watering, half in rage,
 I open the door and find the fridge
stacked full with little jars of curry paste,
 arranged by color, labels faced
 carefully outward, some pushed back
to make room for the beer—no milk, no take-
out cartons of gelatinous chow mein,
 no pickles rotting in green brine,
not even a jar of moldy mayonnaise.
 —I see you’re eating well these days,
 I snap, pressing the beaded glass
of a beer bottle against my neck, face,
 temples, anywhere it will hurt
enough to draw the fire out, and divert
 attention from the fear that follows
close behind … He stares at me, the hollows
under his eyes more prominent than ever. 
 —I don’t eat much these days. The flavor
has gone out of everything, almost.
 For the first time it’s not a boast.
 You know those small bird chili pods—the type
you wear surgical gloves to chop,
 then soak your knife and cutting board
in vinegar? A month ago I scored
 a fresh bag—they were so ripe
I couldn’t cut them warm, I had to keep
them frozen. I forgot what I had meant
 to make, that night—I’d just cleaned
 the kitchen, wanted to fool around
with some old recipe I’d lost, and found
 jammed behind a drawer—I had
maybe too much to drink. “Can’t be that bad,”
 I remember thinking. “What’s the fuss
about? It’s not as if they’re poisonous…”
Those peppers, I ate them, raw—a big fistful
 shoved in my mouth, swallowed whole,
 and more, and more. It wasn’t hard.
You hear of people getting their eyes charred
to cinders, staring into en eclipse…
 He speaks so quickly, one of his lips
 has cracked, leaks a trickle of blood
along his chin … I never understood.
 I try to speak, to offer some
small shocked rejoinder, but my mouth is numb,
tingling, hurts to move—I called in sick
 next morning, said I’d like to take
 time off. She thinks I’ve hit the bottle.
The high those peppers gave me is more subtle—
 I’m lucid, I remember my full name,
my parents’ birthdays, how to win a game
of chess in seven moves, why which and that
 mean different things. But what we eat,
why, what it means, it’s all been explained
 —Take this curry, this fine-tuned
balance of humors, coconut liquor thinned
 by broth, sour pulp of tamarind
 cut through by salt, set off by fragrant
galangal, ginger, basil, cilantro, mint,
the warp and woof of texture, aubergines
 that barely hold their shape, snap beans
 heaped on jasmine, basmati rice
—it’s a lie, all of it—pretext—artifice
 —ornament—sugar-coating—for…
He stops, expressing heat from every pore
of his full face, unable to give vent
 to any more, and sits, silent,
 a whole minute.—You understand?
Of course, I tell him. As he takes my hand
I can’t help but notice the strength his grip
 has lost, as he lifts it to his lip,
presses it for a second, the torn flesh
 as soft, as tenuous, as ash,
 not in the least harsh or rough,
wreck of a mouth, that couldn’t say enough.
Lines for painting on grains of rice
BY CRAIG ARNOLD
For Rebecca
You are the kind of  person who buys exotic fruits
 	leaves them out on the counter until they rot
You always mean to eat them sometimes you rearrange them
 	rousing over the bowl a cloud of tiny flies
&
How do they balance 	the parrot who chews a walnut
 	sideways 	holding it up in his right foot
the owl perched on a just-lit lamppost
 	scratching behind its ear 	like a big dog
&
Your pencil eraser wears down long before the point
 	for every word you write 	you rub out two
&
Where the slice of  toast rested 	the plate is still warm
	a film of fog little points of dew
&
Love is like velocity 	we feel the speeding up
	and the slowing down 	otherwise not at all
the more steady 	the more it feels like going nowhere
	my love I want to go nowhere with you
&
I cannot bring myself  to toss the cup of cold coffee
 	you set down by the door on your way to the taxi
all day I have sipped it 	each time forgetting
 	your two tablets of fake sugar 	too sweet
&
Running down the street
	dodging between raindrops plump as cherries
&
The ground was feathered with wild strawberries
	I picked seven as many as I could bear
I ate two 	I saved the rest for you 	here
	hold out your hand 	take them taste how sweet
&
Please hold me the forgotten way 	the wall pleads
	spray-paint face and voice of a damned poet
the darling damned poets 	save them from themselves
	maybe it is us they need saving from
Crazy Weather
BY JOHN ASHBERY
It’s this crazy weather we’ve been having:
Falling forward one minute, lying down the next
Among the loose grasses and soft, white, nameless flowers.
People have been making a garment out of it,
Stitching the white of lilacs together with lightning
At some anonymous crossroads. the sky calls
To the deaf earth. The proverbial disarray
Of morning corrects itself as you stand up.
You are wearing a text. The lines
Droop to your shoelaces and I shall never want or need
Any other literature than this poetry of mud
And ambitious reminiscences of times when it came easily
Through the then woods and ploughed fields and had
A simple unconscious dignity we can never hope to
Approximate now except in narrow ravines nobody
Will inspect where some late sample of the rare,
Uninteresting specimen might still be putting out shoots, for all we know.
Farm Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape
BY JOHN ASHBERY
The first of the undecoded messages read: “Popeye sits   in thunder, Unthought of. From that shoebox of an apartment, From livid curtain’s hue, a tangram emerges: a country.” Meanwhile the Sea Hag was relaxing on a green couch: “How   pleasant To spend one’s vacation en la casa de Popeye," she   scratched Her cleft chin’s solitary hair. She remembered spinach  And was going to ask Wimpy if he had bought any spinach. “M’love," he intercepted, “the plains are decked out   in thunder Today, and it shall be as you wish.” He scratched The part of his head under his hat. The apartment Seemed to grow smaller. “But what if no pleasant Inspiration plunge us now to the stars? For this is my   country.”  Suddenly they remembered how it was cheaper in the country. Wimpy was thoughtfully cutting open a number 2 can of spinach When the door opened and Swee’pea crept in. “How pleasant!” But Swee’pea looked morose. A note was pinned to his bib.   “Thunder And tears are unavailing," it read. “Henceforth shall  Popeye’s apartment Be but remembered space, toxic or salubrious, whole or   scratched.”  Olive came hurtling through the window; its geraniums scratched Her long thigh. “I have news!” she gasped. “Popeye, forced as   you know to flee the country One musty gusty evening, by the schemes of his wizened,   duplicate father, jealous of the apartment And all that it contains, myself and spinach In particular, heaves bolts of loving thunder At his own astonished becoming, rupturing the pleasant  Arpeggio of our years. No more shall pleasant Rays of the sun refresh your sense of growing old, nor the   scratched Tree-trunks and mossy foliage, only immaculate darkness and   thunder.” She grabbed Swee’pea. “I’m taking the brat to the country.” “But you can’t do that--he hasn’t even finished his spinach," Urged the Sea Hag, looking fearfully around at the apartment.  But Olive was already out of earshot. Now the apartment Succumbed to a strange new hush. “Actually it’s quite pleasant Here," thought the Sea Hag. “If this is all we need fear from   spinach Then I don’t mind so much. Perhaps we could invite Alice the Goon   over”--she scratched One dug pensively--“but Wimpy is such a country Bumpkin, always burping like that.” Minute at first, the thunder  Soon filled the apartment. It was domestic thunder, The color of spinach. Popeye chuckled and scratched His balls: it sure was pleasant to spend a day in the country.

The Instruction Manual
BY JOHN ASHBERY
As I sit looking out of a window of the building
I wish I did not have to write the instruction manual on the uses of a new metal.
I look down into the street and see people, each walking with an inner peace,
And envy them—they are so far away from me!
Not one of them has to worry about getting out this manual on schedule.
And, as my way is, I begin to dream, resting my elbows on the desk and leaning out of the window a little,
Of dim Guadalajara! City of rose-colored flowers!
City I wanted most to see, and most did not see, in Mexico!
But I fancy I see, under the press of having to write the instruction manual,
Your public square, city, with its elaborate little bandstand!
The band is playing Scheherazade by Rimsky-Korsakov.
Around stand the flower girls, handing out rose- and lemon-colored flowers,
Each attractive in her rose-and-blue striped dress (Oh! such shades of rose and 
blue),
And nearby is the little white booth where women in green serve you green and 
yellow fruit.
The couples are parading; everyone is in a holiday mood.
First, leading the parade, is a dapper fellow
Clothed in deep blue. On his head sits a white hat
And he wears a mustache, which has been trimmed for the occasion.
His dear one, his wife, is young and pretty; her shawl is rose, pink, and white.
Her slippers are patent leather, in the American fashion,
And she carries a fan, for she is modest, and does not want the crowd to see her 
face too often.
But everybody is so busy with his wife or loved one
I doubt they would notice the mustachioed man’s wife.
Here come the boys! They are skipping and throwing little things on the sidewalk
Which is made of gray tile. One of them, a little older, has a toothpick in his teeth.
He is silenter than the rest, and affects not to notice the pretty young girls in 
white.
But his friends notice them, and shout their jeers at the laughing girls.
Yet soon all this will cease, with the deepening of their years,
And love bring each to the parade grounds for another reason.
But I have lost sight of the young fellow with the toothpick.
Wait—there he is—on the other side of the bandstand,
Secluded from his friends, in earnest talk with a young girl
Of fourteen or fifteen. I try to hear what they are saying
But it seems they are just mumbling something—shy words of love, probably.
She is slightly taller than he, and looks quietly down into his sincere eyes.
She is wearing white. The breeze ruffles her long fine black hair against her olive 
cheek.
Obviously she is in love. The boy, the young boy with the toothpick, he is in 
love too;
His eyes show it. Turning from this couple,
I see there is an intermission in the concert.
The paraders are resting and sipping drinks through straws
(The drinks are dispensed from a large glass crock by a lady in dark blue),
And the musicians mingle among them, in their creamy white uniforms, and talk
About the weather, perhaps, or how their kids are doing at school.
Let us take this opportunity to tiptoe into one of the side streets.
Here you may see one of those white houses with green trim
That are so popular here. Look—I told you!
It is cool and dim inside, but the patio is sunny.
An old woman in gray sits there, fanning herself with a palm leaf fan.
She welcomes us to her patio, and offers us a cooling drink.
“My son is in Mexico City,” she says. “He would welcome you too
If he were here. But his job is with a bank there.
Look, here is a photograph of him.”
And a dark-skinned lad with pearly teeth grins out at us from the worn leather 
frame.
We thank her for her hospitality, for it is getting late
And we must catch a view of the city, before we leave, from a good high place.
That church tower will do—the faded pink one, there against the fierce blue of the 
sky. Slowly we enter.
The caretaker, an old man dressed in brown and gray, asks us how long we have been in the city, and how we like it here.
His daughter is scrubbing the steps—she nods to us as we pass into the tower.
Soon we have reached the top, and the whole network of the city extends before 
us.
There is the rich quarter, with its houses of pink and white, and its crumbling, 
leafy terraces.
There is the poorer quarter, its homes a deep blue.
There is the market, where men are selling hats and swatting flies
And there is the public library, painted several shades of pale green and beige.
Look! There is the square we just came from, with the promenaders.
There are fewer of them, now that the heat of the day has increased,
But the young boy and girl still lurk in the shadows of the bandstand.
And there is the home of the little old lady—
She is still sitting in the patio, fanning herself.
How limited, but how complete withal, has been our experience of Guadalajara!
We have seen young love, married love, and the love of an aged mother for her 
son.
We have heard the music, tasted the drinks, and looked at colored houses.
What more is there to do, except stay? And that we cannot do.
And as a last breeze freshens the top of the weathered old tower, I turn my
gaze
Back to the instruction manual which has made me dream of Guadalajara.
The Instruction Manual
BY JOHN ASHBERY
As I sit looking out of a window of the building
I wish I did not have to write the instruction manual on the uses of a new metal.
I look down into the street and see people, each walking with an inner peace, 
And envy them—they are so far away from me!
Not one of them has to worry about getting out this manual on schedule. 
And, as my way is, I begin to dream, resting my elbows on the desk and leaning out of the window a little,
Of dim Guadalajara! City of rose-colored flowers!
City I wanted most to see, and most did not see, in Mexico!
But I fancy I see, under the press of having to write the instruction manual, 
Your public square, city, with its elaborate little bandstand!
The band is playing Scheherazade by Rimsky-Korsakov.
Around stand the flower girls, handing out rose- and lemon-colored flowers, 
Each attractive in her rose-and-blue striped dress (Oh! such shades of rose and blue),
And nearby is the little white booth where women in green serve you green and yellow fruit.
The couples are parading; everyone is in a holiday mood.
First, leading the parade, is a dapper fellow
Clothed in deep blue. On his head sits a white hat
And he wears a mustache, which has been trimmed for the occasion.
His dear one, his wife, is young and pretty; her shawl is rose, pink, and white. 
Her slippers are patent leather, in the American fashion,
And she carries a fan, for she is modest, and does not want the crowd to see her face too often.
But everybody is so busy with his wife or loved one
I doubt they would notice the mustachioed man’s wife.
Here come the boys! They are skipping and throwing little things on the sidewalk
Which is made of gray tile. One of them, a little older, has a toothpick in his teeth.
He is silenter than the rest, and affects not to notice the pretty young girls in white.
But his friends notice them, and shout their jeers at the laughing girls. 
Yet soon all this will cease, with the deepening of their years,
And love bring each to the parade grounds for another reason.
But I have lost sight of the young fellow with the toothpick.
Wait—there he is—on the other side of the bandstand,
Secluded from his friends, in earnest talk with a young girl
Of fourteen or fifteen. I try to hear what they are saying
But it seems they are just mumbling something—shy words of love, probably.
She is slightly taller than he, and looks quietly down into his sincere eyes. 
She is wearing white. The breeze ruffles her long fine black hair against her olive cheek.
Obviously she is in love. The boy, the young boy with the toothpick, he is in love too;
His eyes show it. Turning from this couple,
I see there is an intermission in the concert.
The paraders are resting and sipping drinks through straws
(The drinks are dispensed from a large glass crock by a lady in dark blue), 
And the musicians mingle among them, in their creamy white uniforms, and talk
About the weather, perhaps, or how their kids are doing at school.
Let us take this opportunity to tiptoe into one of the side streets. 
Here you may see one of those white houses with green trim 
That are so popular here. Look—I told you!
It is cool and dim inside, but the patio is sunny.
An old woman in gray sits there, fanning herself with a palm leaf fan. 
She welcomes us to her patio, and offers us a cooling drink. 
“My son is in Mexico City,” she says. “He would welcome you too 
If he were here. But his job is with a bank there.
Look, here is a photograph of him.”
And a dark-skinned lad with pearly teeth grins out at us from the worn leather frame.
We thank her for her hospitality, for it is getting late
And we must catch a view of the city, before we leave, from a good high place.
That church tower will do—the faded pink one, there against the fierce blue of the sky. 
Slowly we enter.
The caretaker, an old man dressed in brown and gray, asks us how long we have been in the city, and how we like it here.
His daughter is scrubbing the steps—she nods to us as we pass into the tower.
Soon we have reached the top, and the whole network of the city extends before us.
There is the rich quarter, with its houses of pink and white, and its crumbling, leafy terraces.
There is the poorer quarter, its homes a deep blue.
There is the market, where men are selling hats and swatting flies
And there is the public library, painted several shades of pale green and beige.
Look! There is the square we just came from, with the promenaders. 
There are fewer of them, now that the heat of the day has increased, 
But the young boy and girl still lurk in the shadows of the bandstand. 
And there is the home of the little old lady—
She is still sitting in the patio, fanning herself.
How limited, but how complete withal, has been our experience of Guadalajara!
We have seen young love, married love, and the love of an aged mother for her son.
We have heard the music, tasted the drinks, and looked at colored houses. 
What more is there to do, except stay? And that we cannot do.
And as a last breeze freshens the top of the weathered old tower, I turn my gaze
Back to the instruction manual which has made me dream of Guadalajara.
The Problem of Anxiety
BY JOHN ASHBERY
Fifty years have passed
since I started living in those dark towns
I was telling you about.
Well, not much has changed. I still can't figure out
how to get from the post office to the swings in the park. 
Apple trees blossom in the cold, not from conviction, 
and my hair is the color of dandelion fluff.
Suppose this poem were about you – would you
put in the things I've carefully left out:
descriptions of pain, and sex, and how shiftily 
people behave toward each other? Naw, that's
all in some book it seems. For you
I've saved the descriptions of chicken sandwiches, 
and the glass eye that stares at me in amazement 
from the bronze mantel, and will never be appeased.
Pig Song
BY MARGARET ATWOOD
This is what you changed me to: 
a greypink vegetable with slug 
eyes, buttock 
incarnate, spreading like a slow turnip, 
a skin you stuff so you may feed 
in your turn, a stinking wart 
of flesh, a large tuber 
of blood which munches 
and bloats. Very well then. Meanwhile 
I have the sky, which is only half 
caged, I have my weed corners, 
I keep myself busy, singing 
my song of roots and noses, 
my song of dung. Madame, 
this song offends you, these grunts 
which you find oppressively sexual, 
mistaking simple greed for lust. 
I am yours. If you feed me garbage, 
I will sing a song of garbage. 
This is a hymn.

Musee des Beaux Arts
BY W.H. AUDEN
About suffering they were never wrong,
The old Masters: how well they understood
Its human position: how it takes place
While someone else is eating or opening a window or just walking dully 
along;
How, when the aged are reverently, passionately waiting
For the miraculous birth, there always must be
Children who did not specially want it to happen, skating
On a pond at the edge of the wood:
They never forgot
That even the dreadful martyrdom must run its course
Anyhow in a corner, some untidy spot
Where the dogs go on with their doggy life and the torturer's horse
Scratches its innocent behind on a tree.
In Breughel's Icarus, for instance: how everything turns away
Quite leisurely from the disaster; the ploughman may
Have heard the splash, the forsaken cry,
But for him it was not an important failure; the sun shone
As it had to on the white legs disappearing into the green
Water, and the expensive delicate ship that must have seen
Something amazing, a boy falling out of the sky,
Had somewhere to get to and sailed calmly on.

 
Last Night I Dreamt I Was a DJ
BY FRANK BÁEZ
 
I call Miguel on the phone and ask him
if he thinks I would be better off as a DJ or as a poet
and Miguel answers as a Poet.
My girlfriend also says Poet.
My girlfriend’s brother says Poet
and the chick I met when she was in line behind me at the movie
says DJ.
 
Girls tend to see more as a DJ
while the women shopping at the supermarkets
say that I should stick with the poems.
 
My mother says Poet.
The plumber says Poet.
The five poets I know all say
I’d be better off as a DJ.
My sister abstained from voting.
 
I went to see DJ Tiesto
and a gringa grabbed my hands
and said that DJs are creatures of God.
They’re angels, she said and while she was talking
I imagined all the DJs with their turntables
flying around God like mosquitoes
and God shooing them away
with his hand.
 
But the question is whether the poets and the DJs
can be reconciled;
if they can be One,
if it’s possible to write poems with one hand
and with the other scratch records,
if it’s possible to be half-poet, half-DJ,
to be a poet above the waist
and below the waist a DJ
or vice versa
or maybe, during a full moon, a poet
could transform into a DJ
or maybe I’m complicating everything
and the fact is every DJ wants to be a poet
and every poet wants to be a DJ.
 
There’s a legend in which a DJ and a poet
fall into a well.
they shout and shout until
a man appears and throws down
a rope. The DJ climbs up first but when
they throw the rope back to the poet he screams, “Leave me down here”,
and the man and the DJ do so. They wait in silence
for a little while, and then they leave.
 
For Furious Nursing Baby
BY JULIANNA BAGGOTT
Frothy and pink as a rabid pig you -
a mauler -
a lunatic stricken with
a madness induced by flesh - 
squeeze my skin
until blotchednicked. Your fingernails
are jagged 
and mouth-slick. Pinprick scabs 
jewel my breasts. 
Your tongue, 
your wisest muscle,
is the wet engine 
of discontent.
It self-fastens by a purse-bead of spit
while your elegant hands 
flailconducting
orchestral milk
 and sometimes prime the pump.
Nipple in mouth
nipple in hand
you have your cake and eat it too. 
Then when wrenched
loose you’ll eat sorrow loss - 
one flexed hand twists,
as you open your mouth 
to eat your fist.
Drunk Sonnet 14
BY DANIEL BAILEY
IF ANYONE KNOWS WHAT IS GOING ON EVER THEN HEY
I AM HERE IT WOULD BE NICE TO TALK SOMETIME
INFOMERCIALS HAVE STARTED AND I KIND OF WANT TO DIE
I’M PRETTY SURE THIS ONE IS ACTUALLY FOR A MORGUE
 
OK SO ACTUALLY IT’S FOR THE BIBLE OR SOMETHING
SO IT’S A COMMERICAL FOR TRYING TO BE HAPPY OR SOMETHING
BUT I AM NOT HAPPY TONIGHT NO I AM NOT JUST HERE
IF HAPPINESS EVER WORKED THEN HOW—I DON’T KNOW
 
HAPPINESS IS A LIZARD IN THE SUNLIGHT GETTING WARM
AND THEN IN THE NIGHT BENEATH A ROCK EATING FLIES
AND SWALLLOWING THE MEAT OF THE TRASH OF THE DIRT
 
AH, SO TONIGHT IS A LITTLE DRUNK AND OK OK OK
THAT IS GOOD SO LET ME BE—THERE IS NO LOVE TONIGHT
GOD IS LIKE BONO—SOME DICKWAD NO ONE WILL EVER MEET OR LIK
Child Holding Potato
BY RICK BAROT
When my sister got her diagnosis, I bought an airplane ticket   but to another city, where I stared at paintings that seemed victorious   in their relation to time: the beech from two hundred years ago,   its trunk a palette of mud and gilt; the man with olive-black   gloves, the sky behind him a glacier of blue light. In their calm   landscapes, the saints. Still dripping the garden’s dew, the bouquets.   Holding the rough gold orb of a potato, the Child cradled   by the glowing Madonna. Then, the paintings I looked at the longest:   the bowls of plums and peaches, the lemons, the pomegranates   like red earths. In my mouth, the raw starch. In my mouth, the dirt.
“Coolness of the melons”
BY BASHO, Trans. Robert Hass
Coolness of the melons
flecked with mud
in the morning dew.
Please Marry Me
BY CHARLES BAXTER
Please marry me. Your mother likes me.
 —Line spoken by an unknown woman, in a dream
We are stretched out on a dingy sofa, and I think
I must be barefoot because a woman whom no one knows
Is massaging the ankle of one leg of mine and the instep
Of the other, all this toward morning, and I have that
Occasional epiphany one has while still asleep
That I am floating down a river
Because I am so happy and all the dismal issues
Have been made tractable at last, and so I say to her
That the late symphonies of Gustav Mahler
Are more lucid if you’re sitting close to, and above,
The orchestra, so that you can see the contrapuntal
Lines moving from strings to woodwinds
And then back again, whereupon this woman,
Sitting (I now realize) at my feet, says, in the full
Heat of our dream life, and in that happiness,
“Please marry me. Your mother likes me,”
And so I wake, not laughing, although my mother
Has been dead for over thirty years, but in wonderment
Over what quality this dream-woman must have owned
To have pleased my mother so that she,
My late mother, would have said, despite her ban
On ordinary pleasantries, that she had liked someone,
Anyone, who might have cared for me, and as I lie
In bed I think of the last movement of Mahler’s Ninth
When the melodic lines go quiet for minute after minute
In a prolonged farewell to music and to life,
Which my mother would attend to in her bathrobe
Late at night, the stereo turned up, blended whiskey
In her highball glass mixed with milk as a disguise,
Leaning back, hand over eyes, silent-movie style
Like Norma Desmond listening as Von Stroheim plays
The organ wearing his white gloves. No, it wasn’t
Mahler, it was Schoenberg, Verklärte Nacht,
Moon-drunk music, mad and inconsolable.
Poem (Internal Scene)
BY DAN BEACHY-QUICK
To make beauty out of pain, it damns the eyes—
No, dams the eyes. See how they overflow?
No damns them, damns them, and so they cry.
What shape can I swallow to make me whole?
Baby’s bird-shaped block, blue-painted wood
That fits in the bird-hole of the painted wood box?
The skeleton leaf? The skeleton key? Loud
Knock when the shape won’t unlock any locks.
I hear it through the static in the baby’s room
When the monitor clicks on and off, sound
Of sea-ice cracking against the jagged sea-rocks,
Laughing gull in the gale. What is it dives down
Past sight, down there dark with the other blocks?
It can’t be seen, only heard. A kind of curse,
This kind curse. Forgive me. Blessing that hurts.
The Piano Speaks
BY SANDRA BEASLEY
After Erik Satie
For an hour I forgot my fat self,
my neurotic innards, my addiction to alignment.
For an hour I forgot my fear of rain.
For an hour I was a salamander
shimmying through the kelp in search of shore,
and under his fingers the notes slid loose
from my belly in a long jellyrope of eggs
that took root in the mud. And what
would hatch, I did not know—
a lie. A waltz. An apostle of glass.
For an hour I stood on two legs
and ran. For an hour I panted and galloped.
For an hour I was a maple tree,
and under the summer of his fingers
the notes seeded and winged away
in the clutch of small, elegant helicopters.

Sad Sestina
BY ROBIN BECKER
For Susanna Kaysen
Today’s sadness is different from yesterday’s:
more green in it, some light rain, premonition of departures
and the unpacking of books and papers. It’s not a bad thing
to be sad, my friend Susanna says. Go with it. I’m going by foot
into this sadness, the way we go as children into the awful
school day and the hours of cruelty and misunderstanding,
the way we go into family, into the savagery of standing
up for ourselves among siblings and parents, in yesterday’s
living room, where secrecy turns to habit and we learn the awful,
unthinkable fact: time twists our days into a series of departures.
When he was mad, my father used to say Someone’s got to foot
the bills, and I think of him now, this man who knew one thing
for sure: you had to pay your own way, since nothing
came free in this life. A young dyke, grandstanding
before the relatives, I held my sadness close, one foot
already out the door. Who could believe in yesterday’s
homilies while women cruised me, seventeen and hot for departure?
Today’s sadness unfurls without drama, without the awful
punishments or reprisals of that house. In its place, the awful,
simple, mystery of human melancholy. Most day, I’d trade anything
to be rid of the blues, accustomed to flight and departure,
strategies that saved my life. Today I’m befriending it, standing
beside my sadness like a pal down on her luck, who knows yesterday
isn’t always a good predictor for tomorrow. A rabbit’s foot
won’t help; when the time comes, it’s a question of putting my foot
in the stirrup and riding the sad horse of my body to the awful
little stable at the edge of town. And there to wait while yesterday
has its way with time. Susanna said, To be sad is not a bad thing,
and I believe her, as I pull the heavy saddle from the standing
horse and hang the bridle away. Sadness readies for my departure,
and I for hers. In a most unlikely departure
from the ordinary, even the tough butch on a bike will be a tenderfoot
when it comes to goodbyes. We carry on, notwithstanding
all the good times gone and December’s awful
cheerfulness. Susanna, if I ever discern something
useful about sadness, I’ll wish I’d known it yesterday.
I’ve put distracting things aside and discovered, underfoot,
no wisdom absent yesterday. Still, a saint would find this awful:
a standing date with change, a season of departures.
[Dear Angry Mob,]
BY JOSHUA BECKMAN

Dear Angry Mob,
Oak Wood Trail is closed to you. We
feel it unnecessary to defend our position,
for we have always thought of ourselves
(and rightly, I venture) as a haven for
those seeking a quiet and solitary
contemplation. We are truly sorry
for the inconvenience.
Signed,
 	Ranger Lil

PS	Ofttimes as the day ends
	on a wet bed of yellow leaves
	or the sky densens gray and dark
 	I am brought to imagine
	the growing disquiet
 	in the hearts of my countrymen
[“I like your handsome drugs.Your pleasant…”]
BY JOSHUA BECKMAN
 
 
I like your handsome drugs.Your pleasant
drugs.Your frozen fingernails.Your painted
fingernails.That man screamed out, “The
karate chop of love,” before tackling that woman.
The breeze.Your sort of quiet happy voices.
The karate chop of love.Your handsome drugs.
If you, in all you sexiness, could just bring that
over here.A barrel of fried chicken.That girl
named Katie.A birthday party.Yeah.I go
running in, all ready to show everyone the
karate chop of love.And that girl named Katie.
A barrel of chicken.The breeze.This
birthday party is fucked without the karate
chop of love.Your handsome drugs.
Ode to the Air Traffic Controller
BY JOSHUA BECKMAN
Melbourne, Perth, Darwin, Townsville, Belém, Durban, Lima, Xai-Xai planes with wingspans big as high schools eight hundred nine hundred tons a piece gone like pollen, cumulus cirrus altostratus nimbostratus people getting skinny just trying to lose weight and the sky the biggest thing anyone ever thought of Acceptance, Vancouver, Tehran, Maui school children balloons light blue nothing one goes away not forever, in fact most people, at least if you are flying Delta, come down in Salt Lake City Fairbanks, Kobe, Aukland, Anchorage from Cleveland a hundred Hawaii-bound Germans are coming in low, not to say too low just low pull up Amsterdam pull up Miami historically a very high-strung bunch smokers eaters tiny planes must circle we have bigger problems on our hands New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Paris the boy who has been ignoring dinner throws thirteen paper planes out the window does it look like this? Tashkent, Nome, Rio, Hobart, yes yes it looks just like that now do your homework Capetown Capetown lots of rain good on one good on two go three go four go five go six Mau, Brak, Zella, Ghat, an African parade good on two good on three please speak English please speak English good on five good on six gentlemen: the world will let us down many times but it will never run out of coffee hooray! for Lagos, Accra, Freetown, Dakar your son is on the telephone the Germans landed safely Seattle off to Istanbul tiny planes please circle oh tiny planes do please please circle
Captain Haddock vs. the PTA
BY AMY BEEDER
 
Bewildered Saint of the curse, bulbous
& profane, I invoke you against this Nest
Of Lice & Vipers: O volcanic Captain, I implore you, pour
Your scorn upon these Borgias; before these Braggarts
Unfurl your thick invective, show your bullet head
Whiskey-pickled, weathered & pupilless, sweating
In a bantam rage, your sad-fish face a fist;
Ostrogothic versus the matrons
Voluble against the Vampire’s slander
Because I would never say Vivisectionist to her face
While you old Captain Fatstock, Hopscotch, Havoc
Denouncer of Bullies, Knitters & Bandits
Live to make the air around you frantic
To spill your black lake of Cannibal ink.
Dear Drought
BY AMY BEEDER
Offer your usual posy of goatheads. Proffer
sharp garlands of thistle & Incas’ thin down;
of squash bugs strung on blighted stems; send
back necklaced every reeking pearl I crushed,
each egg cluster that I scraped away with knife
or twig or thumbnail. Wake me sweat-laced
from a dream of hidden stables: the gentle foals
atremble, stem-legged, long-neglected. Dear
drought our summer’s corn was overrun again
with weed & cheat; the bitter zinnias fell to bits.
Dear yearlings our harvest is lattice & husk.
I Heart Your Dog’s Head
BY ERIN BELIEU
I’m watching football, which is odd as
I hate football
in a hyperbolic and clinically revealing way,
but I hate Bill Parcells more,
because he is the illuminated manuscript
of cruel, successful men, those with the slitty eyes of ancient reptiles,
who wear their smugness like a tight white turtleneck,
and revel in their lack of empathy
for any living thing.
So I’m watching football, staying up late to watch football,
hoping to witness (as I think of it)
The Humiliation of the Tuna
(as he is called),
which is rightly Parcells’s first time back in the Meadowlands
since taking up with the Cowboys,
who are, as we all know,
thugs, even by the NFL’s standards. The reasons
I hate football are clear and complicated and were born,
as I was, in Nebraska,
where football is to life what sleep deprivation is
to Amnesty International, that is,
the best researched and most effective method
of breaking a soul. Yes,
there’s the glorification of violence, the weird nexus
knitting the homo, both phobic and erotic,
but also, and worse, my parents in 1971, drunk as
Australian parrots in a bottlebush, screeching
WE’RE #1, WE’RE #1!
when the Huskers finally clinched the Orange Bowl,
the two of them
bouncing up and down crazily on the couch, their index
fingers jutting holes through the ubiquitous trail of smoke rings
that was the weather in our house,
until the whole deranged mess that was them,
my parents, the couch, their lit cigarettes,
flipped over backward onto my brother and me. My husband
thinks that’s a funny story and, in an effort to be a “good sport,”
I say I think it is, too.
 
Which leads me to recall the three Chihuahuas
who’ve spent the fullness of their agitated lives penned
in the back of my neighbor’s yard.
Today they barked continuously for 12 minutes (I timed it) as
the UPS guy made his daily round.
They bark so piercingly, they tremble with such exquisite outrage,
that I’ve begun to root for them, though it’s fashionable
to hate them and increasingly dark threats
against their tiny persons move between the houses on our block.
But isn’t that what’s wrong with this version of America:
the jittering, small-skulled, inbred-by-no-choice-
of-their-own are despised? And Bill Parcells—
the truth is he’ll win
this game. I know it and you know it and, sadly,
did it ever seem there was another possible outcome?
 
It’s a small deposit,
but I’m putting my faith in reincarnation. I need to believe
in the sweetness of one righteous image,
in Bill Parcells trapped in the body of a teacup poodle,
as any despised thing,
forced to yap away his next life staked to
a clothesline pole or doing hard time on a rich old matron’s lap,
dyed lilac to match her outfit.
I want to live there someday, across that street,
and listen to him. Yap, yap, yap.
I Long To Hold The Poetry Editor’s Penis In My Hand
 Francesca Bell
and tell him personally,
I’m sorry, but I’m going
to have to pass on this.
Though your piece
held my attention through
the first few screenings,
I don’t feel it is a good fit
for me at this time.
Please know it received
my careful consideration.
I thank you for allowing
me to have a look,
and I wish you
the very best of luck
placing it elsewhere.
Poem to Line My Casket with, Ramona
BY JOSH BELL

Come practice your whorish gestures in the graveyard, Ramona.
Come sharpen your teeth on the tombstones.
Cough up the roots if you know what’s good for you.
When coyotes are teaching their young to howl,
ghoulies rehearse the Courtship of Wristbones.
When you hear clawing at the square of styrofoam
serving as a window in the caretaker’s shack,
then you must count each step going up to the mausoleum,
and my ghost will appear in the churchyard.
He’ll kiss the back of your knee in the moonlight.
These are not promises, but eerie enough, regardless.
You must count out loud, Ramona, the steps,
because this is the time to watch what eats you.
I used to love the way the wind whistled through your teeth
when you drove the back roads, above your legal limit.
I used to have these poses. They turned into habits.
I used to love the folks that loved me.
And they’ve been sad ones, my years since being dead.
And they’ve been coming, the folks who claim to love me.
And I hardly recognize myself. There aren’t mirrors, as such.
The drum section rattles it out, down by the high school.
I hear them, or is it the caretaker drunk in his wheelbarrow?
You used to play the wheelbarrow, I recall.
You used to wash your underwear in the sink.
Above ground, the wind whistles through the tombstones.
Below ground, the wind sleeps and has colors.
Below ground, colors are how I dream of making my comeback.
There’s a difference between a white dress and the white dress.
You used to strip off the white dress in a highly professional manner.
You used to dangle the remote, and I’d come get it.
You used to skip church. You used to skip dinner parties.
Now you’ve been seen hoisting condoms from the pharmacy.
There are twelve condoms to a pack. A pack of lovers mills outside your door.
A pack of the dead are heading toward the showers.
A pack of dead lovers is referred to as "a creep" of dead lovers.
More than one dead lover is weeping. But oh, how it was me who loved you then.
You with your cracked lips, with your love and your other defilements kept alive 
in a bucket.
When I first died, I stole a lock of your hair while you slept.
Now I dip it in ink when the mood strikes,
and the times you visit and kneel so pretty on the grass above me,
that’s not scratching you hear. It’s writing.


In the Guinea Pig Cave
 
By Aase Berg
 
 
There lay the guinea pigs. There lay the guinea pigs and they waited with blood around their mouths like my sister. There lay the guinea pigs and they smelled bad in the cave. There lay my sister and she swelled and ached and throbbed. There lay the guinea pigs and they ached all over and their legs stuck straight up like beetles and they looked depraved and were blue under their eyes as from months of debauchery. My sister puked calmly and indifferently: it ran slowly out of her slack mouth without her moving a single nerve. And the cave was warm as teats and full of autumn leaves and beneath the soil lay the arm of a mannequin. There lay the guinea pigs and ached and were made of dough. There lay the guinea pigs beside the knives that would slice them up like loaves. And my sister with lips of blueberries, soil and mush. In the distance, the siren bleated inhumanly. That is where the guinea pigs lay and waited with blood around their mouths and contorted bodies. They waited. And I was tired in my whole stomach from meat dough and guinea pig loaf and I knew that they would revenge on me.
 
 
from Hos rådjur (With Deer)
Imagining Defeat
BY DAVID BERMAN
She woke me up at dawn,
her suitcase like a little brown dog at her heels.
I sat up and looked out the window
at the snow falling in the stand of blackjack trees.
A bus ticket in her hand.
Then she brought something black up to her mouth,
a plum I thought, but it was an asthma inhaler.
I reached under the bed for my menthols
and she asked if I ever thought of cancer.
Yes, I said, but always as a tree way up ahead
in the distance where it doesn't matter
And I suppose a dead soul must look back at that tree,
so far behind his wagon where it also doesn't matter.
except as a memory of rest or water.
Though to believe any of that, I thought,
you have to accept the premise
that she woke me up at all.
Anger
BY APRIL BERNARD
 
I
When in a farmhouse kitchen that smelled
of old rinds and wet cigarette butts
I hoisted the shotgun to my shoulder
and aimed but did not fire it at the man
who had just taken my virginity like a snack,
with my collusion, but still — 
When I sat in a conference room
in an inquisition
at the “newspaper of record,”
across from the one slurping his pipe,
the one arching her eyebrow,
and I felt the heat like a wet brand in my chest,
repaid insult for insult and left their fancy job
like a squashed bug on the floor — 
When I was twelve, too old, the last time my father
spanked me, pants down,
because I had “distressed” my mother
and my vision went red-black and
I did not forgive — 
When, during my travels along the Gulf Coast,
the intruder returned in the night
and I did not call the cops again but stood
with a butcher knife facing the door, yelling, “Come in!”
although this time it was just the wind flapping
and banging the screen door — 
When across a skating-rink-sized glistening table
I told the committee chair and her brooch I was a fan of Marx
and lost the fellowship — 
When I threw a pot of hot coffee
and it just missed a man’s head, and the black-brown spatter stains
were still there four years later long after he’d left me
when I finally moved out of that East Village hole — 

II
I would have had to be thinking
in order to have thought — loaded, not loaded?
 — and I was not thinking, I was only dripping hot
and oh the pleasure, I can still feel its prickling,
crackle over the furnace of my rage,
to see his face go pale, his eyes widen,
his “put it down, put it down” — and I
put it down and allowed my life as well as his
to go on.

III
I miss my anger. Decades go by
when all I can muster is absent-minded invective,
you know, directed at the news;
or a brief fantasy
of shoving someone in front of a bus. Yesterday
I slammed my fist on my desk
and then apologized, to the desk.
Consider the tapestry of the seven deadly sins, at Saint-Denis:
Anger, wild-haired and half-dressed,
picked out in blue and silver thread bunched
against the crimson,
rough against the fingertips, she
rides a black boar dappled with blood
and waves her double-headed axe — 
Yes, I remember her.
I always lie when I always say
I didn’t know the gun was loaded.
People Who Died
BY TED BERRIGAN
Pat Dugan……..my grandfather……..throat cancer……..1947.
 
Ed Berrigan……..my dad……..heart attack……..1958.
 
Dickie Budlong……..my best friend Brucie’s big brother, when we were
		five to eight……..killed in Korea, 1953.
 
Red O’Sullivan……..hockey star & cross-country runner
	who sat at my lunch table
	in High School……car crash…...1954.
 
Jimmy “Wah” Tiernan……..my friend, in High School,
	 Football & Hockey All-State……car crash….1959.
 
Cisco Houston……..died of cancer……..1961.
 
Freddy Herko, dancer….jumped out of a Greenwich Village window
 	in 1963.
 
Anne Kepler….my girl….killed by smoke-poisoning while playing
	the flute at the Yonkers Children’s Hospital 
	during a fire set by a 16 year old arsonist….1965.
 
Frank……Frank O’Hara……hit by a car on Fire Island, 1966.
 
Woody Guthrie……dead of Huntington’s Chorea in 1968.
 
Neal……Neal Cassady……died of exposure, sleeping all night
		in the rain by the RR tracks of Mexico….1969.
 
Franny Winston……just a girl….totalled her car on the Detroit-Ann Arbor
	Freeway, returning from the dentist….Sept. 1969.
 
Jack……Jack Kerouac……died of drink & angry sickness….in 1969.
 
My friends whose deaths have slowed my heart stay with me now.
How To Be a Poet
BY WENDELL BERRY
(to remind myself)
i 
Make a place to sit down. 
Sit down. Be quiet. 
You must depend upon 
affection, reading, knowledge, 
skill—more of each 
than you have—inspiration, 
work, growing older, patience, 
for patience joins time 
to eternity. Any readers 
who like your poems, 
doubt their judgment. 
ii 
Breathe with unconditional breath 
the unconditioned air. 
Shun electric wire. 
Communicate slowly. Live 
a three-dimensioned life; 
stay away from screens. 
Stay away from anything 
that obscures the place it is in. 
There are no unsacred places; 
there are only sacred places 
and desecrated places. 

iii 
Accept what comes from silence. 
Make the best you can of it. 
Of the little words that come 
out of the silence, like prayers 
prayed back to the one who prays, 
make a poem that does not disturb 
the silence from which it came.
 
Dream Song 14
 
 
Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so.
After all, the sky flashes, the great sea yearns,
we ourselves flash and yearn,
and moreover my mother told me as a boy
(repeatingly) ‘Ever to confess you’re bored
means you have no
 
Inner Resources.’ I conclude now I have no
inner resources, because I am heavy bored.
Peoples bore me,
literature bores me, especially great literature,
Henry bores me, with his plights & gripes
as bad as achilles,
 
who loves people and valiant art, which bores me.
And the tranquil hills, & gin, look like a drag
and somehow a dog
has taken itself & its tail considerably away
into mountains or sea or sky, leaving	
behind: me, wag.
 
 
 
John Berryman
Dream Song 29
BY JOHN BERRYMAN
There sat down, once, a thing on Henry’s heart 
só heavy, if he had a hundred years
& more, & weeping, sleepless, in all them time 
Henry could not make good.
Starts again always in Henry’s ears
the little cough somewhere, an odour, a chime.
And there is another thing he has in mind 
like a grave Sienese face a thousand years
would fail to blur the still profiled reproach of. Ghastly, 
with open eyes, he attends, blind.
All the bells say: too late. This is not for tears; 
thinking.
But never did Henry, as he thought he did,
end anyone and hacks her body up
and hide the pieces, where they may be found.
He knows: he went over everyone, & nobody’s missing. 
Often he reckons, in the dawn, them up.
Nobody is ever missing.
Dream Song 4
 
 
Filling her compact & delicious body
with chicken páprika, she glanced at me
twice.
Fainting with interest, I hungered back
and only the fact of her husband & four other people
kept me from springing on her
 
or falling at her little feet and crying
‘You are the hottest one for years of night
Henry’s dazed eyes
have enjoyed, Brilliance.’ I advanced upon
(despairing) my spumoni.--Sir Bones: is stuffed,
de world, wif feeding girls.
 
--Black hair, complexion Latin, jewelled eyes
downcast . . . The slob beside her feasts . . . What wonders is
she sitting on, over there?
The restaurant buzzes.She might as well be on Mars.
Where did it all go wrong? There ought to be a law against Henry.
--Mr. Bones: there is.
 
 
 
John Berryman
Dream Song 4
by John Berryman
Filling her compact & delicious body with chicken páprika, she glanced at me twice. Fainting with interest, I hungered back and only the fact of her husband & four other people kept me from springing on her  or falling at her little feet and crying ‘You are the hottest one for years of night Henry’s dazed eyes have enjoyed, Brilliance.' I advanced upon (despairing) my spumoni.--Sir Bones: is stuffed, de world, wif feeding girls.  --Black hair, complexion Latin, jewelled eyes downcast . . . The slob beside her feasts . . . What wonders is she sitting on, over there? The restaurant buzzes.She might as well be on Mars. Where did it all go wrong? There ought to be a law against Henry. --Mr. Bones: there is.
A Subaltern's Love Song
BY JOHN BETJEMAN
Miss J.Hunter Dunn, Miss J.Hunter Dunn,
Furnish'd and burnish'd by Aldershot sun,
What strenuous singles we played after tea,
We in the tournament - you against me!
Love-thirty, love-forty, oh! weakness of joy,
The speed of a swallow, the grace of a boy,
With carefullest carelessness, gaily you won,
I am weak from your loveliness, Joan Hunter Dunn
Miss Joan Hunter Dunn, Miss Joan Hunter Dunn,
How mad I am, sad I am, glad that you won,
The warm-handled racket is back in its press,
But my shock-headed victor, she loves me no less.
Her father's euonymus shines as we walk,
And swing past the summer-house, buried in talk,
And cool the verandah that welcomes us in
To the six-o'clock news and a lime-juice and gin.
The scent of the conifers, sound of the bath,
The view from my bedroom of moss-dappled path,
As I struggle with double-end evening tie,
For we dance at the Golf Club, my victor and I.
On the floor of her bedroom lie blazer and shorts,
And the cream-coloured walls are be-trophied with sports,
And westering, questioning settles the sun,
On your low-leaded window, Miss Joan Hunter Dunn.
The Hillman is waiting, the light's in the hall,
The pictures of Egypt are bright on the wall,
My sweet, I am standing beside the oak stair
And there on the landing's the light on your hair.
By roads "not adopted", by woodlanded ways,
She drove to the club in the late summer haze,
Into nine-o'clock Camberley, heavy with bells
And mushroomy, pine-woody, evergreen smells.
Miss Joan Hunter Dunn, Miss Joan Hunter Dunn,
I can hear from the car park the dance has begun,
Oh! Surry twilight! importunate band!
Oh! strongly adorable tennis-girl's hand!
Around us are Rovers and Austins afar,
Above us the intimate roof of the car,
And here on my right is the girl of my choice,
With the tilt of her nose and the chime of her voice.
And the scent of her wrap, and the words never said,
And the ominous, ominous dancing ahead.
We sat in the car park till twenty to one
And now I'm engaged to Miss Joan Hunter Dunn.
- See more at: http://allpoetry.com/A-Subaltern's-Love-Song#sthash.z20xfxQj.dpuf
At the End of Life, a Secret
BY REGINALD DWAYNE BETTS
Everything measured. A man twists
a tuft of your hair out for no reason
other than you are naked before him
and he is bored with nakedness. Moments
before he was weighing your gallbladder,
and then he was staring at the empty space
where your lungs were. Even dead, we still
say you are an organ donor, as if something
other than taxes outlasts death. Your feet
are regular feet. Two of them, and there is no
mark to suggest you were an expert mathematician,
nothing that suggests that a woman loved
you until you died. From the time your body
was carted before him to the time your
dead body is being sent to the coffin,
every pound is accounted for, except 21 grams.
The man is a praying man and has figured
what it means. He says this is the soul, finally,
after the breath has gone. The soul: less than
$4,000 worth of crack—21 grams—
all that moves you through this world.
Ellen West
BY FRANK BIDART
I love sweets,— 
	heaven 
would be dying on a bed of vanilla ice cream ... 
But my true self 
is thin, all profile 
and effortless gestures, the sort of blond 
elegant girl whose 
	body is the image of her soul. 
—My doctors tell me I must give up 
this ideal; 
but I 
WILL NOT ... cannot. 
Only to my husband I’m not simply a “case.” 
But he is a fool. He married 
meat, and thought it was a wife. 
... 
Why am I a girl? 
I ask my doctors, and they tell me they 
don’t know, that it is just “given.” 
But it has such 
implications—; 
	and sometimes, 
I even feel like a girl. 
... 
Now, at the beginning of Ellen’s thirty-second year, her physical condition has deteriorated still further. Her use of laxatives increases beyond measure. Every evening she takes sixty to seventy tablets of a laxative, with the result that she suffers tortured vomiting at night and violent diarrhea by day, often accompanied by a weakness of the heart. She has thinned down to a skeleton, and weighs only 92 pounds. 
... 
About five years ago, I was in a restaurant, 
eating alone 
 	with a book. I was 
not married, and often did that ... 
—I’d turn down 
dinner invitations, so I could eat alone; 
I’d allow myself two pieces of bread, with 
butter, at the beginning, and three scoops of 
vanilla ice cream, at the end,— 
sitting there alone 
with a book, both in the book 
and out of it, waited on, idly 
watching people,— 
 when an attractive young man 
and woman, both elegantly dressed, 
sat next to me. 
She was beautiful—; 
with sharp, clear features, a good 
bone structure—; 
 	if she took her make-up off 
in front of you, rubbing cold cream 
again and again across her skin, she still would be 
beautiful— 
 more beautiful. 
And he,— 
I couldn’t remember when I had seen a man 
so attractive. I didn’t know why. He was almost 
a male version 
	of her,— 
I had the sudden, mad notion that I 
wanted to be his lover ... 
—Were they married? 
were they lovers? 
They didn’t wear wedding rings. 
Their behavior was circumspect. They discussed 
politics. They didn’t touch ... 
—How could I discover? 
	Then, when the first course 
arrived, I noticed the way 
each held his fork out for the other 
to taste what he had ordered ... 
 	They did this 
again and again, with pleased looks, indulgent 
smiles, for each course, 
 	more than once for each dish—; 
much too much for just friends ... 
—Their behavior somehow sickened me; 
the way each gladly
put the food the other had offered into his mouth—; 
I knew what they were. I knew they slept together. 
An immense depression came over me ... 
—I knew I could never 
with such ease allow another to put food into my mouth: 
happily myself put food into another’s mouth—; 
I knew that to become a wife I would have to give up my ideal. 
... 
Even as a child, 
I saw that the “natural” process of aging 
is for one’s middle to thicken— 
one’s skin to blotch; 
as happened to my mother. 
And her mother. 
I loathed “Nature.”
At twelve, pancakes 
became the most terrible thought there is ... 
I shall defeat “Nature.” 
In the hospital, when they 
weigh me, I wear weights secretly sewn into my belt. 
... 
January 16. The patient is allowed to eat in her room, but comes readily with her husband to afternoon coffee. Previously she had stoutly resisted this on the ground that she did not really eat but devoured like a wild animal. This she demonstrated with utmost realism.... Her physical examination showed nothing striking. Salivary glands are markedly enlarged on both sides. 
 	January 21. Has been reading Faust again. In her diary, writes that art is the “mutual permeation” of the “world of the body” and the “world of the spirit” Says that her own poems are “hospital poems ... weak—without skill or perseverance; only managing to beat their wings softly.” 
 	February 8. Agitation, quickly subsided again. Has attached herself to an elegant, very thin female patient. Homo-erotic component strikingly evident. 
 	February 15. Vexation, and torment. Says that her mind forces her always to think of eating. Feels herself degraded by this. Has entirely, for the first time in years, stopped writing poetry. 
... 
Callas is my favorite singer, but I’ve only 
seen her once—; 
I’ve never forgotten that night ... 
—It was in Tosca, she had long before 
lost weight, her voice 
had been, for years, 
 	deteriorating, half itself ... 
When her career began, of course, she was fat, 
enormous—; in the early photographs, 
sometimes I almost don’t recognize her ... 
The voice too then was enormous— 
healthy; robust; subtle; but capable of 
crude effects, even vulgar, 
almost out of 
high spirits, too much health ... 
But soon she felt that she must lose weight,— 
that all she was trying to express 
was obliterated by her body, 
buried in flesh—; 
 abruptly, within 
four months, she lost at least sixty pounds ... 
—The gossip in Milan was that Callas 
had swallowed a tapeworm. 
But of course she hadn’t. 
 The tapeworm
was her soul ... 
—How her soul, uncompromising, 
insatiable, 
must have loved eating the flesh from her bones, 
revealing this extraordinarily 
mercurial; fragile; masterly creature ... 
—But irresistibly, nothing 
stopped there; the huge voice 
also began to change: at first, it simply diminished 
in volume, in size, 
then the top notes became 
shrill, unreliable—at last, 
usually not there at all ... 
—No one knows why. Perhaps her mind, 
ravenous, still insatiable, sensed 
that to struggle with the shreds of a voice 
must make her artistry subtler, more refined, 
more capable of expressing humiliation, 
rage, betrayal ... 
—Perhaps the opposite. Perhaps her spirit 
loathed the unending struggle 
to embody itself, to manifest itself, on a stage whose 
mechanics, and suffocating customs, 
seemed expressly designed to annihilate spirit ... 
—I know that in Tosca, in the second act, 
when, humiliated, hounded by Scarpia, 
she sang Vissi d’arte
 	—“I lived for art”— 
and in torment, bewilderment, at the end she asks, 
with a voice reaching 
 harrowingly for the notes, 
“Art has repaid me LIKE THIS?” 
	I felt I was watching 
autobiography— 
 an art; skill; 
virtuosity 
miles distant from the usual soprano’s 
athleticism,— 
 	the usual musician’s dream 
of virtuosity without content ... 
—I wonder what she feels, now, 
listening to her recordings. 
For they have already, within a few years, 
begun to date ... 
Whatever they express 
they express through the style of a decade 
and a half—; 
 	a style she helped create ... 
—She must know that now 
she probably would not do a trill in 
exactly that way,— 
 that the whole sound, atmosphere, 
dramaturgy of her recordings 
have just slightly become those of the past ... 
—Is it bitter? Does her soul 
tell her 
that she was an idiot ever to think 
anything 
 material wholly could satisfy? ... 
—Perhaps it says: The only way 
to escape 
the History of Styles
is not to have a body.
... 
When I open my eyes in the morning, my great 
mystery 
stands before me ... 
—I know that I am intelligent; therefore 
the inability not to fear food 
day-and-night; this unending hunger 
ten minutes after I have eaten ... 
	a childish 
dread of eating; hunger which can have no cause,— 
half my mind says that all this 
is demeaning ... 
 	Bread 
for days on end 
drives all real thought from my brain ... 
—Then I think, No. The ideal of being thin 
conceals the ideal 
not to have a body—; 
 	which is NOT trivial ... 
This wish seems now as much a “given” of my existence 
as the intolerable 
fact that I am dark-complexioned; big-boned; 
and once weighed 
one hundred and sixty-five pounds ... 
—But then I think, No. That’s too simple,— 
without a body, who can 
know himself at all? 
 	Only by 
acting; choosing; rejecting; have I 
made myself— 
discovered who and what Ellen can be ... 
—But then again I think, NO. This I is anterior 
to name; gender; action; 
fashion; 
 	MATTER ITSELF,— 
... trying to stop my hunger with FOOD 
is like trying to appease thirst 
 	with ink. 
... 
March 30. Result of the consultation: Both gentlemen agree completely with my prognosis and doubt any therapeutic usefulness of commitment even more emphatically than I. All three of us are agreed that it is not a case of obsessional neurosis and not one of manic-depressive psychosis, and that no definitely reliable therapy is possible. We therefore resolved to give in to the patient’s demand for discharge. 
... 
The train-ride yesterday 
was far worse than I expected ... 
	In our compartment 
were ordinary people: a student; 
a woman; her child;— 
they had ordinary bodies, pleasant faces; 
 but I thought 
I was surrounded by creatures 
with the pathetic, desperate 
desire to be not what they were:— 
the student was short, 
and carried his body as if forcing 
it to be taller—; 
the woman showed her gums when she smiled, 
and often held her 
hand up to hide them—; 
the child 
seemed to cry simply because it was 
small; a dwarf, and helpless ... 
—I was hungry. I had insisted that my husband 
not bring food ... 
After about thirty minutes, the woman 
peeled an orange 
to quiet the child. She put a section 
into its mouth—; 
 	immediately it spit it out. 
The piece fell to the floor. 
—She pushed it with her foot through the dirt 
toward me 
several inches. 
My husband saw me staring 
down at the piece ... 
—I didn’t move; how I wanted 
to reach out, 
 and as if invisible 
shove it in my mouth—; 
my body 
became rigid. As I stared at him, 
I could see him staring 
at me,— 
	then he looked at the student—; at the woman—; then 
back to me ... 
I didn’t move. 
—At last, he bent down, and 
casually 
 	threw it out the window. 
He looked away. 
—I got up to leave the compartment, then 
saw his face,— 
his eyes 
were red; 
 and I saw 
—I’m sure I saw—
disappointment. 
... 
On the third day of being home she is as if transformed. At breakfast she eats butter and sugar, at noon she eats so much that—for the first time in thirteen years!—she is satisfied by her food and gets really full. At afternoon coffee she eats chocolate creams and Easter eggs. She takes a walk with her husband, reads poems, listens to recordings, is in a positively festive mood, and all heaviness seems to have fallen away from her. She writes letters, the last one a letter to the fellow patient here to whom she had become so attached. In the evening she takes a lethal dose of poison, and on the following morning she is dead. “She looked as she had never looked in life—calm and happy and peaceful.” 
... 
Dearest.—I remember how 
at eighteen, 
 	on hikes with friends, when 
they rested, sitting down to joke or talk, 
I circled 
around them, afraid to hike ahead alone, 
yet afraid to rest 
when I was not yet truly thin. 
You and, yes, my husband,— 
you and he 
have by degrees drawn me within the circle; 
forced me to sit down at last on the ground. 
I am grateful. 
But something in me refuses it. 
—How eager I have been 
to compromise, to kill this refuser,— 
but each compromise, each attempt 
to poison an ideal 
which often seemed to me sterile and unreal, 
heightens my hunger. 
I am crippled. I disappoint you. 
Will you greet with anger, or 
happiness, 
the news which might well reach you 
before this letter? 
Your Ellen.
Poem Ending with a Sentence by Heath Ledger
BY FRANK BIDART
Each grinding flattened American vowel smashed to
centerlessness, his glee that whatever long ago mutilated his
mouth, he has mastered to mutilate
you: the Joker's voice, so unlike
the bruised, withheld, wounded voice of Ennis Del Mar.
Once I have the voice
that's
the line
and at
the end 
of the line
is a hook
and attached
to that
is the soul.
Queer 
by Frank Bidart
Lie to yourself about this and you will 
forever lie about everything. 
Everybody already knows everything 
so you can
lie to them. That's what they want. 
But lie to yourself, what you will 
lose is yourself. Then you
turn into them.
* 
For each gay kid whose adolescence 
was America in the forties or fifties
the primary, the crucial 
scenario 
forever is coming out—
or not. Or not. Or not. Or not. Or not.
* 
Involuted velleities of self-erasure.
*
Quickly after my parents
died, I came out. Foundational narrative 
designed to confer existence. 
If I had managed to come out to my
mother, she would have blamed not 
me, but herself. 
The door through which you were shoved out 
into the light
was self-loathing and terror.
* 
Thank you, terror! 
You learned early that adults' genteel
fantasies about human life 
were not, for you, life. You think sex 
is a knife
driven into you to teach you that.

Stanzas Ending with the Same Two Words
BY FRANK BIDART
At first I felt shame because I had entered
through the door marked Your Death.
Not a valuable word written
unsteeped in your death.
You are the ruin whose arm encircles the young woman
at the posthumous bar, before your death.
The grass is still hungry
above you, fed by your death.
Kill whatever killed your father, your life
turning to me again said before your death.
Hard to grow old still hungry.
You were still hungry at your death.
Burning the Fields
BY LINDA BIERDS
 	1.
In the windless late sunlight of August,
my father set fire to a globe of twine. At his back,
the harvested acres of bluegrass and timothy
rippled. I watched from a shallow hill
as the globe, chained to the flank of his pickup truck,
galloped and bucked down a yellow row, arced
at the fire trench, circled back,
arced again, the flames behind
sketching first a C, then closing to O—a word
or wreath, a flapping, slack-based heart,
gradually filling. To me at least. To the mare
beside me, my father dragged a gleaming fence,
some cinch-corral she might have known,
the way the walls moved rhythmically,
in and in. And to the crows, manic
on the thermals? A crescent of their planet,
gone to sudden sun. I watched one stutter
past the fence line, then settle
on a Hereford's tufted nape,
as if to peck some safer grain, as if
the red-cast back it rode
contained no transformations.

 	2.
A seepage, then, from the fire's edge: there
and there, the russet flood of rabbits.
Over the sounds of burning, their haunted calls
began, shrill and wavering, as if
their dormant voice strings
had tightened into threads of glass.
In an instant they were gone—the rabbits,
their voices—over the fire trench,
into the fallows. My father walked
near the burn line, waved up to me, and from
that wave, or the rippled film of heat,
I remembered our porch in an August wind,
how he stepped through the weathered doorway,
his hand outstretched with some
book-pressed flower, orchid or lily, withered
to a parchment brown. Here, he said, but
as he spoke it atomized before us—
pulp and stem, the pollened tongue,
dreadful in the dancing air.

 	3.
Scummed and boxcar thin,
six glass-walled houses stretched beside our fields.
Inside them, lilies, lilies—
a thousand shades of white, I think.
Eggshell, oyster, parchment, flax.
Far down the black-mulched beds, they seemed
ancestral to me, the fluted heads of
dowagers, their meaty, groping,
silent tongues. They seemed
to form perspective's chain:
cinder, bone, divinity. . .

 	4.
My father waved. The crows set down.
By evening, our fields took the texture
of freshened clay, a sleek
and water-bloated sheen, although no water
rested there—just heat and ash
united in a slick mirage. I crossed the fence line,
circled closer, the grasses all around me
collapsing into tufts of smoke. Then as I bent
I saw the shapes, rows and rows of tougher stems—
brittle, black, metallic wisps, like something grown
to echo grass. The soot was warm,
the sky held smoke in a jaundiced wing,
and as a breeze crossed slowly through,
stems glowed—then ebbed—
consecutively. And so revealed a kind of path,
and then a kind of journey.

A Miracle for Breakfast
BY ELIZABETH BISHOP
At six o'clock we were waiting for coffee, 
waiting for coffee and the charitable crumb 
that was going to be served from a certain balcony 
--like kings of old, or like a miracle. 
It was still dark. One foot of the sun 
steadied itself on a long ripple in the river. 
The first ferry of the day had just crossed the river. 
It was so cold we hoped that the coffee 
would be very hot, seeing that the sun 
was not going to warm us; and that the crumb 
would be a loaf each, buttered, by a miracle. 
At seven a man stepped out on the balcony. 
He stood for a minute alone on the balcony 
looking over our heads toward the river. 
A servant handed him the makings of a miracle, 
consisting of one lone cup of coffee 
and one roll, which he proceeded to crumb, 
his head, so to speak, in the clouds--along with the sun. 
Was the man crazy? What under the sun 
was he trying to do, up there on his balcony! 
Each man received one rather hard crumb, 
which some flicked scornfully into the river, 
and, in a cup, one drop of the coffee. 
Some of us stood around, waiting for the miracle. 
I can tell what I saw next; it was not a miracle. 
A beautiful villa stood in the sun 
and from its doors came the smell of hot coffee. 
In front, a baroque white plaster balcony 
added by birds, who nest along the river, 
--I saw it with one eye close to the crumb-- 
and galleries and marble chambers. My crumb 
my mansion, made for me by a miracle, 
through ages, by insects, birds, and the river 
working the stone. Every day, in the sun, 
at breakfast time I sit on my balcony 
with my feet up, and drink gallons of coffee. 
We licked up the crumb and swallowed the coffee. 
A window across the river caught the sun 
as if the miracle were working, on the wrong balcony. 
One Art
BY ELIZABETH BISHOP
The art of losing isn’t hard to master; so many things seem filled with the intent to be lost that their loss is no disaster.  Lose something every day. Accept the fluster of lost door keys, the hour badly spent. The art of losing isn’t hard to master.  Then practice losing farther, losing faster: places, and names, and where it was you meant  to travel. None of these will bring disaster.  I lost my mother’s watch. And look! my last, or next-to-last, of three loved houses went. The art of losing isn’t hard to master.  I lost two cities, lovely ones. And, vaster, some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent. I miss them, but it wasn’t a disaster.  —Even losing you (the joking voice, a gesture I love) I shan’t have lied.It’s evident the art of losing’s not too hard to master though it may look like (Write it!) like disaster.
THE MAP
by Elizabeth Bishop
Land lies in water; it is shadowed green.
Shadows, or are they shallows, at its edges
showing the line of long sea-weeded ledges
where weeds hang to the simple blue from green.
Or does the land lean down to lift the sea from under,
drawing it unperturbed around itself?
Along the fine tan sandy shelf
is the land tugging at the sea from under?
The shadow of Newfoundland lies flat and still.
Labrador's yellow, where the moony Eskimo
has oiled it. We can stroke these lovely bays,
under a glass as if they were expected to blossom,
or as if to provide a clean cage for invisible fish.
The names of seashore towns run out to sea,
the names of cities cross the neighboring mountains
-the printer here experiencing the same excitement
as when emotion too far exceeds its cause.
These peninsulas take the water between thumb and finger
like women feeling for the smoothness of yard-goods.
Mapped waters are more quiet than the land is,
lending the land their waves' own conformation:
and Norway's hare runs south in agitation,
profiles investigate the sea, where land is.
Are they assigned, or can the countries pick their colors?
-What suits the character or the native waters best.
Topography displays no favorites; North's as near as West.
More delicate than the historians' are the map-makers' colors. 
The Fish
By Elizabeth Bishop
I caught a tremendous fish and held him beside the boat half out of water, with my hook fast in a corner of his mouth. He didn’t fight. He hadn’t fought at all. He hung a grunting weight, battered and venerable and homely. Here and there his brown skin hung in strips like ancient wallpaper, and its pattern of darker brown was like wallpaper: shapes like full-blown roses stained and lost through age. He was speckled with barnacles, fine rosettes of lime, and infested with tiny white sea-lice, and underneath two or three rags of green weed hung down. While his gills were breathing in the terrible oxygen —the frightening gills, fresh and crisp with blood, that can cut so badly— I thought of the coarse white flesh packed in like feathers, the big bones and the little bones, the dramatic reds and blacks of his shiny entrails, and the pink swim-bladder like a big peony. I looked into his eyes which were far larger than mine but shallower, and yellowed, the irises backed and packed with tarnished tinfoil seen through the lenses of old scratched isinglass. They shifted a little, but not to return my stare. —It was more like the tipping of an object toward the light. I admired his sullen face, the mechanism of his jaw, and then I saw that from his lower lip —if you could call it a lip— grim, wet, and weaponlike, hung five old pieces of fish-line, or four and a wire leader with the swivel still attached, with all their five big hooks grown firmly in his mouth. A green line, frayed at the end where he broke it, two heavier lines, and a fine black thread still crimped from the strain and snap when it broke and he got away. Like medals with their ribbons frayed and wavering, a five-haired beard of wisdom trailing from his aching jaw. I stared and stared and victory filled up the little rented boat, from the pool of bilge where oil had spread a rainbow around the rusted engine to the bailer rusted orange, the sun-cracked thwarts, the oarlocks on their strings, the gunnels—until everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow! And I let the fish go.
The Man-Moth
BY ELIZABETH BISHOP

Man-Moth: Newspaper misprint for “mammoth.”
 Here, above,
cracks in the buildings are filled with battered moonlight.
The whole shadow of Man is only as big as his hat.
It lies at his feet like a circle for a doll to stand on,
and he makes an inverted pin, the point magnetized to the moon.
He does not see the moon; he observes only her vast properties,
feeling the queer light on his hands, neither warm nor cold,
of a temperature impossible to record in thermometers.
 But when the Man-Moth
pays his rare, although occasional, visits to the surface,
the moon looks rather different to him. He emerges
from an opening under the edge of one of the sidewalks
and nervously begins to scale the faces of the buildings.
He thinks the moon is a small hole at the top of the sky,
proving the sky quite useless for protection.
He trembles, but must investigate as high as he can climb.
 Up the façades,
his shadow dragging like a photographer’s cloth behind him
he climbs fearfully, thinking that this time he will manage
to push his small head through that round clean opening
and be forced through, as from a tube, in black scrolls on the light.
(Man, standing below him, has no such illusions.)
But what the Man-Moth fears most he must do, although
he fails, of course, and falls back scared but quite unhurt.
 Then he returns
to the pale subways of cement he calls his home. He flits,
he flutters, and cannot get aboard the silent trains
fast enough to suit him. The doors close swiftly.
The Man-Moth always seats himself facing the wrong way
and the train starts at once at its full, terrible speed,
without a shift in gears or a gradation of any sort.
He cannot tell the rate at which he travels backwards.
 Each night he must
be carried through artificial tunnels and dream recurrent dreams.
Just as the ties recur beneath his train, these underlie
his rushing brain. He does not dare look out the window,
for the third rail, the unbroken draught of poison,
runs there beside him. He regards it as a disease
he has inherited the susceptibility to. He has to keep
his hands in his pockets, as others must wear mufflers.
 If you catch him,
hold up a flashlight to his eye. It’s all dark pupil,
an entire night itself, whose haired horizon tightens
as he stares back, and closes up the eye. Then from the lids
one tear, his only possession, like the bee’s sting, slips.
Slyly he palms it, and if you’re not paying attention
he’ll swallow it. However, if you watch, he’ll hand it over,
cool as from underground springs and pure enough to drink.
KILLING MARK
BY RICHARD BLANCO
His plane went down over Los Angeles
last week (again), or was it Long Island?
Boxer shorts, hair gel, his toothbrush
washed up on the shore at New Haven,
but his body never recovered, I feared.
Monday, he cut off his leg chain sawing-
bled to death slowly while I was shopping
for a new lamp, never heard my messages
on his cell phone: Where are you? Call me!
I told him to be careful. He never listens.
Tonight, fifteen minutes late, I’m sure
he’s hit a moose on Route 26, but maybe
he survived, someone from the hospital
will call me, give me his room number.
I’ll bring his pajamas, some magazines.
5:25: still no phone call, voice mail full.
I turn on the news, wait for the report:
flashes of moose blood, his car mangled,
as I buzz around the bedroom dusting
the furniture, sorting the sock drawer.
Did someone knock? I’m expecting
the sheriff by six o’clock.Mr. Blanco,
I’m afraid . . .he’ll say, hand me a Ziploc
with his wallet, sunglasses, wristwatch.
I’ll invite him in, make some coffee.
6:25: I’ll have to call his mom, explain,
arrange to fly the body back. Do I have
enough garbage bags for his clothes?
I should keep his ties- but his shoes?
Order flowers- roses- white or read?
By seven-thirty I’m taking mental notes
for his eulogy, suddenly adorning all
I’ve hated, ten years worth of nose hairs
in the sink, of lost car keys, of chewing
too loud and hogging the bed sheets,
when Joey yowls, ears to the sound
of footsteps up the drive, and darts
to the doorway, I follow with a scowl:
Where the hell were you? Couldn’t call?
Translation: I die each time I kill you.
How to Cook a Wolf
BY ADRIAN BLEVINS
If your mother’s like mine wanting you honeyed and blithe 
 	you’ll get cooked by getting evicted 
since the mothers can teach with a dustpan the tons of modes of tossing.
And the fathers will lift your eyes too-early-too-open: 
 	the fathers can creep up on anything when it’s still too wet 
to cloister with their weeping and strand you like a seed 
or cook at the carnivals with the can-do caroling 
 	and storefronts and foodstuffs and annulments and Scotch 
and off-handed fucking and walking out and moving on 
until they’re cooking the drift of you wanting a whole bayou up in you 
 	and cooking and cooking the gist 
of you needing your crannies hot with a good man’s body-silt 
until your head is stuffed with a pining for diapers
 	and the most minuscule spoons made mostly of silver 
and Ajax too and Minwax Oh
in this the dumbstruck story of the American female
 	as a cut of terracotta and some kindling in a dress 
while howling at the marrow of the marrow of the bone.
Julia Bloch
from LETTERS TO KELLY CLARKSON
Dear Kelly,
I feel it’s time to wear more skirts, it’s time to change brains, it’s time to up my dose, it’s time for less empathy. I don’t have any appetite for this appetite. I tell my lover she’s my little Hamlet when she cries and cries.
Let me explain: the feeling there’s something else you’re supposed to be doing is terrible as a flock of birds. I tried to up the antecedent. I was fit to burst with words. Honey, I wanted the hit.
Dear Kelly,
I hear you’ve parted your hair a new way for the music video. I myself am dividing tasks according to what can be completed in front of the television, the depressive’s gesticulations toward order.On my complaint letter to the airlines, my “sincerely” has been upgraded to “best wishes” — the twitching rabbit of ordinary brutality. Small bones, you say. Still, you must protect your throat from the hawks that can swoop down like the next big lie.
Dear Kelly,
At a cold blue table a horn pinches at the air, its leads, its gestures. I didn’t want to depart from the recording but my lungs had started to feel the effects of television’s unfinished repair. Like my sister’s face on the flute, that greenery, suburban pointillism, I’m not even sure you can read music. I am so tired of pointing, just pointing.
Dear Kelly,
This winter, everyone’s hunched over in their own private airplane seats, sight-reading the street. Do I deserve new clothes? Ugh, what a repetitive gesture. They say you’ve also “parted ways” with your 2002 image. If you look on IMDB you’ll see some people like your ass but not your face. This puts me in such a despondency I know now how I want the book to end: on a crease.

A Week After Your Death
ROBERT BLY
I dreamt last night you Lived nearby, not Dead at all, but safe In a blacksmith’s storage room, With bolts and nails and bins From floor to ceiling.
You came and brought me An ivory jar, Holding a precious fluid, Which I took.  I knew it meant The time had come, But I let you leave.
Later a man pushed open The door and threw Your body down, a wizened, Astonishingly small body – Rope still tied Around the neck.
I woke and cried to my wife: “He didn’t die That way!  There was no rope! All that is wrong!”  She Said, “In Your dream he did.”

Driving toward the Lac Qui Parle River
BY ROBERT BLY
I
I am driving; it is dusk; Minnesota.
The stubble field catches the last growth of sun. 
The soybeans are breathing on all sides.
Old men are sitting before their houses on car seats 
In the small towns. I am happy,
The moon rising above the turkey sheds.
II
The small world of the car
Plunges through the deep fields of the night, 
On the road from Willmar to Milan. 
This solitude covered with iron
Moves through the fields of night
Penetrated by the noise of crickets.
III
Nearly to Milan, suddenly a small bridge,
And water kneeling in the moonlight.
In small towns the houses are built right on the ground; 
The lamplight falls on all fours on the grass.
When I reach the river, the full moon covers it. 
A few people are talking, low, in a boat.
Warning to the Reader
BY ROBERT BLY
 Sometimes farm granaries become especially beautiful when all the oats or wheat are gone, and wind has swept the rough floor clean. Standing inside, we see around us, coming in through the cracks between shrunken wall boards, bands or strips of sunlight. So in a poem about imprisonment, one sees a little light.
 But how many birds have died trapped in these granaries. The bird, seeing freedom in the light, flutters up the walls and falls back again and again. The way out is where the rats enter and leave; but the rat's hole is low to the floor. Writers, be careful then by showing the sunlight on the walls not to promise the anxious and panicky blackbirds a way out!
 I say to the reader, beware. Readers who love poems of light may sit hunched in the corner with nothing in their gizzards for four days, light failing, the eyes glazed . . .
 They may end as a mound of feathers and a skull on the open boardwood floor . . .
The Dream
BY LOUISE BOGAN
O God, in the dream the terrible horse began To paw at the air, and make for me with his blows, Fear kept for thirty-five years poured through his mane, And retribution equally old, or nearly, breathed through his nose.   Coward complete, I lay and wept on the ground When some strong creature appeared, and leapt for the rein. Another woman, as I lay half in a swound Leapt in the air, and clutched at the leather and chain.   Give him, she said, something of yours as a charm. Throw him, she said, some poor thing you alone claim. No, no, I cried, he hates me; he is out for harm, And whether I yield or not, it is all the same.   But, like a lion in a legend, when I flung the glove Pulled from my sweating, my cold right hand; The terrible beast, that no one may understand, Came to my side, and put down his head in love. 

The Meeting
BY LOUISE BOGAN
For years I thought I knew, at the bottom of the dream,
Who spoke but to say farewell,
Whose smile dissolved, after his first words
Gentle and plausible.
Each time I found him, it was always the same;
Recognition and surprise,
And then the silence, after the first words,
And the shifting of the eyes.
Then the moment when he had nothing to say
And only smiled again,
But this time toward a place beyond me, where I could not stay--
No world of men.
Now I am not sure. Who are you? Who have you been?
Why do our paths cross?
At the deepest bottom of the dream you are let in,
A symbol of loss.
Eye to eye we look, and we greet each other
Like friends from the same land.
Bitter compliance! Like a faithless brother
You take and drop my hand.
No Sorry
-Catherine Bowman
Do you have any scissors I could borrow? No, I’m sorry I don’t. What about a knife? Do you have any knives? A good paring knife would do or a simple butcher knife or maybe a cleaver? No, sorry all I have is this old bread knife my grandfather used to butter his bread with every morning. Well then, how about a hand drill or a hammer, a bike chain, or some barbed wire? You got any rusty razor-edged barbed wire? You got a chainsaw? No sorry I don’t. Well then maybe you have some sticks? I’m sorry, I don’t have any sticks. How about some stones? No I don’t have any sticks or stones. Well how about a stone tied to a stick? You mean a club?Yeah a club. You got a club? No, sorry, I don’t have any clubs. What about some fighting picks, war axes, military forks, or tomahawks? No, sorry, I don’t have any kind of war fork, axe, or tomahawk. What about a morning star? A morning Star? Yeah, you know, those spiked ball and chains they sell for riot control. No, nothing like that. Sorry. Now, I know you said you don’t have a knife except for that dull old thing your grandfather used to butter his bread with every morning and he passed down to you but I thought maybe you just might have an Australian dagger with a quartz blade and a wood handle, or a bone dagger, or a Bowie, you know it doesn’t hurt to ask? O perhaps one of those lethal multipurpose stilettos? No, sorry. Or maybe you have a simple blow pipe? Or a complex airgun? No, I don’t have a simple blow pipe or a complex airgun. Well then maybe you have a jungle carbine, a Colt, a revolver, a Ruger, an axis bolt-action repeating rifle with telescopic sight for sniping, a sawed-off shotgun? Or better yet, a gas-operated self-loading fully automatic assault weapon? No, sorry I don’t. How about a hand grenade? No. How about a tank? No. Shrapnel? No. Napalm? No. Napalm 2? No, sorry I don’t. Let me ask you this. Do you have any inter-Continental ballistic missiles? Or submarine-Launched cruise missiles? Or Multiple independently targeted reentry missiles? Or terminally guided anti-tank shells or projectiles? Let me ask you this. Do you have any fission bombs or hydrogen bombs? Do you have any thermonuclear warheads? Got any electronic measures or electronic counter-measures or electronic counter-counter-measures? Got any biological weapons or germ warfare, preferably in aerosol form? Got any enhanced tactical neutron lasers emitting massive doses of whole-body gamma radiation? Wait a minute. Got any plutonium? Got any chemical agency, nerve agents, blister agents, you know, like mustard gas, any choking agents or incapacitating agents or toxin agents? Well I’m not sure. What do they look like? Liquid vapor powder colorless gas. Invisible. I’m not sure. What do they smell like? They smell like fruit, garlic, fish or soap, new-mown hay, apple blossoms, or like those little green peppers that your grandfather probably would tend to in his garden every morning after he buttered his bread with that old bread knife that he passed down to you.
Donner Party
BY RICHARD BRAUTIGAN
Forsaken, fucking in the cold, 
eating each other, lost 
runny noses, 
complaining all the time 
like so many 
people 
that we know 
To England
-Richard Brautigan
There are no postage stamps that send letters
back to England three centuries ago,
no postage stamps that make letters
travel back until the grave hasn't been dug yet,
and John Donne stands looking out the window,
it is just beginning to rain this April morning,
and the birds are falling into the trees
like chess pieces into an unplayed game,
and John Donne sees the postman coming up the street,
the postman walks very carefully because his cane
is made of glass. 
Am Moor
by LUCIE BROCK-BROIDO
Am lean against.
Am the heavy hour
Hand at urge,
At the verge of one. Am the ice comb of the tonsured
Hair, am the second
Hand, halted, the velvet opera glove. Am slant. Am fen, the injure
Wind at withins,
Stranger where the storm forms a face if the body stands enough
In a weather this
Cripple & this rough. Am shunt. Was moon-shaped helmet left
In bog, was condition
Of a spirit shorn, childlike & herd. Was Andalusian, ambsace,
Bird. Am kept.
Was keeper of the badly marred, was furious done god, was
Patient, was bad
Luck, was nurse. Ninety badly wounded men lay baying
In the reddened reedy
Hay of Saxony, was surgeon to their flinch & hoop, was hospice
To their torso hall,
Was numinous creature to their dying
Off. Am numb.
Was shoulder & queer luck. Am among.
Was gaunt.
Was--why--or the mutton & moss. Was the rented room.
Was chamber & ambage
& tender & burn. Am esurient, was the hungry form.
Am anatomy.
Was the bleating thing. 

Basic Poem in a Basic Tongue
by Lucie Brock-Broido
Here is the maudlin petty bourgeoisie of ruin.
A sullen pity-craft before the fallows of Allhallowmas.
The aristocracy in one green cortege at the registry of Vehicle
 and Animus.
A muster of pale stars stationed like gazelles just looking up,
Before the rustle of the coming kill.
At home, the hoi polloi keep tendering the books of lob's
despond, in Braille.
The girl at open half-door in her early Netherlandish light of
melancholia.
So many brooding swans like floating inkstains on a lake of
slender wakefulness.
-
Elective Mutes
by Lucie Brock-Broido
Nobody suffers the way I do. Not with a sister…
But this sister of mine, a dark shadow robbing me of sunlight, is my one and only torment.
-June Gibbons
Tuesday afternoon, Broadmoor
I
In summertime, when we were little, I remember we
walking with synchronized steps, a four-armed girl,
we’ve got everything
the same. We were eleven, a shadow & a shadow
of her shadow. I am born
first & I teach my sister to be quiet.
Here’s the secret:
One day we will burn buildings together.
One day we will set fire to great things.
It sends shudders down my spine.
In the heat of swing park, we will take boys
down & mingle with them in the brushes.
In a basket, we will float down rivers, Venus
rising infrared, you’ve no idea
what it’s like to have this other
half. We floating like hot house
fuchsia, two Chinese lanterns
through the water edge, a bulrush, shooting
stars. I will teach you to be perfect, more
quiet. I will teach you to be hard high self
mutilating. We will talk patois, speeded
up 78 on the record player, so no one else
can understand. We do, we know
the languages of hemlock, jimson weed.
Sometimes, my hands smell like sex.
That summer if anyone looked at one of us
we froze, like girls made of bloodstone,
crackleware. We kiln things.
We love each other like we grew
from the same set of pelvic bone,
as if we were attached like clethra
flowers to their stems.
We’re budding now.
II
We were sixteen & took to our room.
J & I are two colored girls of history.
We do dolls, most are twinnies like we are.
I am the vicar here, the dolls marry
on the floor, kneeling on a red patch
of my mother’s velvet dress.
We sing hymns we stain the hymnsheets
in the colours of medieval luminations
the colour of Mars, some nights bloodred,
the blue of Mercury, azury
like the sky lit up all over America,
a clear suburban summer
night & the lawnmower’s stopped
& the swimming pools are filled up
with the bice of night
water, a town in mid-America gone
mad, deserted. Someday we’ll live there
when everyone’s gone to the drive-in
& blonde twins are on the roofs of cars
or lounging on their sunchairs in the dark, soaking
up their moon, all the convertible tops
are down & the speakerbox hangs
on the rear view mirror like a locust,
slow & distorted like that
& you climb in back to have a boy
inside you, that’s what I want, on the back seat
sprawling in the noises like an animal
he makes, but you’re shy, you’re bourgeois, you talk
American which I sort of like but it’s kind of sleazy, you know?
But me & Jennifer are up here in our room, broadcasting
Radio Gibbons in the gloom of an English outpost of the RAF.
these are my children now.
FROM THE REGISTER OF DEATHS OF DOLLS:
June Gibbons. 	Aged 9. 	Died of leg injury.
George Gibbons. 	Aged 4. 	Died of eczema.
Bluey Gibbons. 	Aged two and a half. 	Died of appendix.
Peter Gibbons. 	Aged 5. Adopted. 	Presumed dead.
Polly Morgan-Gibbons. 	Age 4. 		Died of a slit face
Susie Pope-Gibbons died the same time of a cracked skull.
We forecast the weather from our room.
III
Dear Lord, you have no idea
what it was like. 	11 June 1981.
I want a baby of my own, caged wren, tiny
trapped inside me like a blow of laurel
growing in a field, high and taking
from my own blood like an other only smaller,
someone I can call my own.
We to Welsh Hook & down into the barn.
J’s lover, Carl, is there he broke
my virginity tonight. She
watched us, there was we
& blackeyed broken glass fallen
from the windows & a wild bird caught up
in the rafters, couldn’t find his way back out.
Shrike: 	hangs its prey on wire fences, thorns.
This is what it felt like: for the first time
now I am alive. We did it
to the stylistics, J watching
then we lay down heavy in the hay, heat
sticking stalks up under my blouse,
strawflowers, a resurrection weed inside of me.
Smoke: 	indicates confusion.
Fire: 	desire for escape.
Shoes off, summer night, whole world
smells of fennel, all romance
from the Book of Red Dreams:
Arson: 	indicates a twining.
Bitch: 		flammable, a lover.
Nakedness: 	perfection, fire inside thing consumed.
Sometimes we even dream the same, get that.
I burned it down today.
IV
Without my shadow, would I die?
At school once, in a tuberculosis scare
when we uncurled our limbs for vaccination
ours were the only coloured arms.
Pink pink pink pink black. I love
flowers. When we grow wild we are.
No one can hear us talk, we mute we shy.
The other girls are none of we.
From 	The Little Books for Little Angels:
It is Christmas day. The TV’s on all afternoon. Lassie, Bonanza, imports from America. It is ten years ago, I have this dream. There are five children, blue-eyed little angels. There’s a bird on top our tree. The TV’s gone blue, all the stars of the show are twinnies. My father in his big old resting chair. Everyone’s dressed in Victorian clothes, as if there’s been a wedding. White gloves & something catches fire. J is on her knees. We’ve come home from putting flowers on our mother’s grave. She isn’t really dead yet, she feeds us bloodpudding for supper. Everyone talking with no vowels. It’s snowing hard & our house is getting more & more muffled. I’ve blue eyes, covered with lace. J & I are brides. We both have this disease of the lung. We are inseparable.
We’ll die early & be stars.
 V
By the next summer, we’d bandaged our breasts
down so hard we could barely breathe.
High on vodka and glue, we both fuck the same
boy. Lupine, hawthorne, love-lies-bleeding,
small violence of the scent.
Something like magic is happening.
You’ve no idea how much I am
she. I am she. Dear Lord,
I am scared of her. She is not normal.
Someone is driving her insane. It is me.
Tonight she would a cord around my neck
to strangle me, 6 November, Furzy Park.
She broke our ritual, she goes too far.
We take brandy from beneath our bed,
go to Gypsy Lane to walk.
Wolfbane, daphne, trillium.
Really it’s more of debris
there than anything else, the river’s drying up.
But tonight, everything is full.
It has been raining for days.
Everything is dripping
like pen & ink drawings, long & lean
as the blackened Modigliani faces of my sisters art.
We entice each other constantly
in these beautiful nights
after neverending rain –
First of all, I wept to God
– when world is wet & shiny, under the bridge, I hold her
head down under
water & I feel her thrash
against me, just this once, I murder her,
it’s a once in a lifetime thing, you know?
You have no idea
how much I love her, I am she.
Sweet alyssum, larkspur, yew.
We kiss. Monkshood, nasturtium,
forget me not.
Like a Real Flame
BY MELISSA BRODER
 
I want the hole in my ear to be quiet
And inside the hole in my ear to be quiet
And I want it to tell me what to do
Or I will go to my lover’s mouth
And say oh my quiet
I am coming
And tell the quiet how its kingdom should be made
Though the quiet has already eaten me
Because the quiet loves me
But does the lover love me
And why must the quiet be so quiet
And why can’t the quiet have a cock
And where is its violet mouth
Its ten fingers with which to fix me
And where is its belly breathing
And O I want to be fixed
But I am already fixed
Why don’t I feel it
Lunar Shatters
BY MELISSA BRODER
I came into the world a young man
Then I broke me off
Still the sea and clouds are Pegasus colors
My heart is Pegasus colors but to get there I must go back
Back to the time before I was a woman
Before I broke me off to make a flattened lap
And placed thereon a young man
Where I myself could have dangled
And how I begged him enter there
My broken young man parts
And how I let the mystery collapse
With rugged young man puncture
And how I begged him turn me Pegasus colors
And please to put a sunset there
And gone forever was my feeling snake
And in its place dark letters
And me the softest of all
And me so skinless I could no longer be naked
And me I had to de-banshee
And me I dressed myself
I made a poison suit
I darned it out of myths
Some of the myths were beautiful
Some turned ugly in the making
The myth of the slender girl
The myth of the fat one
The myth of rescue
The myth of young men
The myth of the hair in their eyes
The myth of how beauty would save them
The myth of me and who I must become
The myth of what I am not
And the horses who are no myth
How they do not need to turn Pegasus
They are winged in their un-myth
They holy up the ground
I must holy up the ground
I sanctify the ground and say fuck it
I say fuck it in a way that does not invite death
I say fuck it and fall down no new holes
And I ride an unwinged horse
And I unbecome myself
And I strip my poison suit
And wear my crown of fuck its
THE SECOND SERMON ON THE WARPLAND
 
–Gwendolyn Brooks, from In the Mecca (1968)
1.
This is the urgency:Live!
and have your blooming in the noise of the whirlwind.
 2.
Salve salvage in the spin.
Endorse the splendor splashes;
stylize the flawed utility;
prop a malign or failing light–
but know the whirlwind is our commonwealth.
Not the easy man, who rides above them all,
not the jumbo brigand,
not the pet bird of poets, that sweetest sonnet,
shall straddle the whirlwind.
Nevertheless, live.
 
3.
All about are the cold places,
all about are the pushmen and jeopardy, theft–
all about are the stormers and scramblers, but
what must our Season be, which starts from Fear?
Live and go out.
Define and
medicate the whirlwind.
 4.
The time
cracks into furious flower.Lifts its face
all unashamed.And sways in wicked grace.
Whose half-black hands assemble oranges
is tom-tom hearted
(goes in bearing oranges and boom).
And there are bells for orphans–
and red and shriek and sheen.
A garbageman is dignified
as any diplomat.
Big Bessie’s feet hurt like nobody’s business,
but she stands–bigly–under the unruly scrutiny, stands in the wild weed.
In the wild weed
she is a citizen,
and is a moment of highest quality; admirable.
It is lonesome, yes.For we are the last of the loud.
Nevertheless, live.
Conduct your blooming in the noise and whip of the whirlwind.

Another Elegy
BY JERICHO BROWN
This is what our dying looks like. You believe in the sun. I believe I can’t love you. Always be closing, Said our favorite professor before He let the gun go off in his mouth. I turned 29 the way any man turns In his sleep, unaware of the earth Moving beneath him, its plates in Their places, a dated disagreement. Let’s fight it out, baby. You have Only so long left—a man turning In his sleep—so I take a picture. I won’t look at it, of course. It’s His bad side, his Mr. Hyde, the hole In a husband’s head, the O Of his wife’s mouth. Every night, I take a pill. Miss one, and I’m gone. Miss two, and we’re through. Hotels Bore me, unless I get a mountain view, A room in which my cell won’t work, And there’s nothing to do but see The sun go down into the ground That cradles us as any coffin can.
Grip
BY JERICHO BROWN
If it had become a competition in which we,
Like children desperate for the blue ribbon,
Pulled knotted hemp, gripping until certain
Of calluses, if our contest awarded the strongest,
The boy who could best inflict pain yet not 
Flinch when injured, then you won, for I must 
Imagine the brown of your back to reach my 
Peak, a short thread of breaths, a tug of war
With the heaviest child grunting at the end 
Of the rope until jerked and dragged over 
The line. That fat kid flounders through muck
The way I splash your relentless name 
In shivers about me. Watch him wallow. 
If he tastes mud as bitter as this poem
Of mine, then I win – and you love me.
Track 5: Summertime
-BY JERICHO BROWN
as performed by Janis Joplin
God’s got his eye on me, but I ain’t a sparrow. 
I’m more like a lawn mower . . .no, a chainsaw,
Anything that might mangle each manicured lawn 
In Port Arthur, a place I wouldn’t return to 
If the mayor offered me every ounce of oil 
My daddy cans at the refinery. My voice, I mean, 
Ain’t sweet. Nothing nice about it. It won’t fly 
Even with Jesus watching. I don’t believe in Jesus. 
The Baxter boys climbed a tree just to throw 
Persimmons at me. The good and perfect gifts 
From above hit like lightning, leave bruises. 
So I lied—I believe, but I don’t think God 
Likes me. The girls in the locker room slapped 
Dirty pads across my face. They called me 
Bitch, but I never bit back. I ain’t a dog. 
Chainsaw, I say. My voice hacks at you. I bet 
I tear my throat. I try so hard to sound jagged. 
I get high and say one thing so many times 
Like Willie Baker who worked across the street— 
I saw some kids whip him with a belt while he 
Repeated, Please. School out, summertime 
And the living lashed, Mama said I should be 
Thankful, that the town’s worse to coloreds 
Than they are to me, that I’d grow out of my acne.
God must love Willie Baker—all that leather and still 
A please that sounds like music. See.
I wouldn’t know a sparrow from a mockingbird.
The band plays. I just belt out, Please. This tune 
Ain’t half the blues. I should be thankful.
I get high and moan like a lawn mower 
So nobody notices I’m such an ugly girl.
I’m such an ugly girl. I try to sing like a man 
Boys call, boy. I turn my face to God. I pray. I wish 
I could pour oil on everything green in Port Arthur. 
								
The Legend of Big and Fine
BY JERICHO BROWN
Long ago, we used two words for the worth of a house, a car,
A woman—all the same to men who claimed them:things
To be entered, each to experience wear and tear with time,
But greater than the love for these was the strong little grin
One man offered another saying, You lucky.You got you a big, 
Fine __________.Hard to imagine—so many men waiting
On each other to be recognized, every crooked tooth in our
Naming mouths ready like the syllables of a very short
Sentence, so many of us crying mine, like infants who grab
For what must be beautiful since someone else saw it.
 
The Opposite of Love 
By Sommer Browning
 
Something is wrong. Light travels slow.
The sun’s already dead
for all we know. In Fargo, North Dakota,
My sister and I think we’ll die
 
on a Tilt-a-Whirl. The carnie won’t
let us off. Each time we scream past him
 
he just grins.
 
Sometimes it’s the world that’s inadequate.
 
I’m worried how many more times I’ll tell the story
about peeing in a cop car before someone loves me.
Bright Leaf
BY ELLEN BRYANT VOIGT
Like words put to a song, the bunched tobacco leaves 
are strung along a stick, the women
standing in the August heat for hours—since first light—
under the pitched tin roof, barefoot, and at their feet 
the babies, bare-assed, dirty, eating dirt.
The older children hand the leaves from the slide, 
three leaves at a time, stalks upright, three handers
for each stringer, and three more heaped canvas slides 
waiting in what little shade there is: it’s ten o’clock, 
almost dinnertime. They pull the pails of cold lunch 
and Mason jars of tea out of the spring
when they see the farmer coming from the field, their men 
stripped to the waist, polished by sweat and tired as mules. 
By afternoon, the loose cotton dresses, even 
the headrags are dark with sweat.
Still their fingers never miss a stitch,
though they’re paid not by the stick but by the day,
and the talk—unbroken news of cousins and acquaintances—
unwinding with the ball of twine, a frayed snuff-twig 
bouncing on one lip, the string paying out
through their calluses, the piles of wide green leaves 
diminishing, until the men appear with the last slide 
and clamber up the rafters of the barn
to line the loaded sticks along the tiers. It’s Friday:
the farmer pays with a wad of ones and fives, 
having turned the mule out to its feed and water, 
hung up the stiffened traces and the bit. He checks 
again the other barns, already fired, crude ovens 
of log and mud where the crop is cured;
in that hot dry acrid air, spreads a yellowing leaf 
across his palm, rolls an edge in his fingers, 
gauging by its texture and its smell
how high to drive the fire.
His crew is quiet in the pickup truck—did you think
they were singing? They are much too tired to even speak, 
can barely lick salt from the back of a hand, brush at flies, 
hush a baby with a sugartit. And the man
who owns this land is also tired.
Everyday this week he’s meant to bring home pears 
from the old tree by the barn, but now he sees
the fruit has fallen, sees the yellow jackets feeding there. 
He lights a Lucky, frames a joke for his wife—he’ll say 
their banker raised a piss-poor field this year.
And she will lean against the doorjamb
while he talks, while he scrubs his hands at the tin basin 
with a split lemon and a pumice stone, rubs them raw 
trying to cut the gummy resin, that stubborn
black stain within the green
Bluebird
By Charles Bukowski
there's a bluebird in my heart that
wants to get out
but I'm too tough for him,
I say, stay in there, I'm not going
to let anybody see
you.
there's a bluebird in my heart that
wants to get out
but I pour whiskey on him and inhale
cigarette smoke
and the bartenders
and the grocery clerks
never know that
he's
in there.
there's a bluebird in my heart that
wants to get out
but I'm too tough for him,
I say,
stay down, do you want to mess
me up?
you want to screw up the
works?
you want to blow my book sales in
Europe?
there's a bluebird in my heart that
wants to get out
but I'm too clever, I only let him out
at night sometimes
when everybody's asleep.
I say, I know that you're there,
so don't be
sad.
then I put him back,
but he's singing a little
in there, I haven't quite let him
die
and we sleep together like
that
with our
secret pact
and it's nice enough to
make a man
weep, but I don't
weep, do
you?
A Love Supreme (2)
BY GABRIELLE CALVOCORESSI
Breathless in the backwoods
backlit by what joy could hold you
I see you, naked as stripped wire
all coiled against the quarry man’s
hands. You dance the polecat dance
I lay by the tires, unseen. I crawled
here, sniffing the ground for clues,
bloodhound, girl child rooting you out.
Get gone, you’d say. No way ma mere.
I love you like Elvis loved pistols,
stroking you in the television light
the possibility of that finite music
better than all the stages in the world.
Girl, you keep rocking just like so
I’ll go down river and catch you a fish
with my dirty hands, no man
can contain the love I have for you
nor the rapt attention. Take my hand,
take my whole life too. I’ve slicked
my hair back, I’ve made myself
a boy for you.
Blues For Ruby Goldstein
By GABY CALVOCORESSI

The best time is sunset when the streets get 
quiet. No more kids playing stickball 
under the window. No guys looking up 
to see if you're home. What does anybody 
know about a body anyway? 
It can take a worse beating than most 
can imagine. You can get every rib broken 
and your eyes punched shut and your kidneys 
can bleed like you see at the butcher. You can 
forget your name and still be in church 
the next morning passing the plate. It's why 
guys like to get in fights at the bar: 
no one who's taken a punch really thinks 
he'll get killed. I mean sometimes it's different.
One time out on the street this kid mouthed
off to cop. Just some skinny kid not from
around here, probably he lived further 
uptown. They took him round the back
of my building and let him know what was what,
how this part of town ran. I remember
him down on his knees, not making a sound
just slumping forward and rocking back
as he took the boot in the face. One would
grab his head like a barber checking the length
of his hair. And he'd pull so the kid rose up
a little and then he'd let go. It went on 
like that for awhile. That kid probably
thought he was done for. Yeah. He probably
thought they'd leave him for dead. Which they did.
He was slight. What we'd have called a flit
or a fairy. Or something unkind. But you know?
He got up a few hours later. At first
he just crawled but he found his legs
pretty soon. He got up and looked around.
You could see him take a big breath before
he walked into the street. That was brave
for that kid to do that. And the guys let him
go without making much of a fuss. I think
a beer can got thrown and maybe a couple
guys spit. Nothing too bad after what he'd
been through. I was skinny myself. "The Jewel
of the Ghetto." That's what they called me back
in the 30's. So I know the kind of 
lip you take from guys bigger than you.
All heart. That's what most little guys are.
But that counts for a lot. In the gym or
the ring all you gotta do is get up
one more time than the other guy thinks you can.
It's true. Nothing breaks a guy's spirit
like a skinny kid getting up off the floor.
Some nights I could see the moment I won
before I won. I'd take every punch
that some fighter could think of, I'd feel them
just let themselves loose in my gut till they
let go or sometimes the gut and the head
and the gut one more time and here's something
no fighter will tell you: there's a sound
you make when you hit and you hit and you're 
nothing but motion. It's not like sounds
you make with your wife or a girl, it's rougher
and darker and sometimes it feels better
and after you feel so relaxed. You can't
really explain it and make it sound 
normal. But a lot of folks know what I
mean. And I'd let the guy do it, let him
get to where he'd want me to hold him 
up for a bit. He would almost thank me
for not falling down. We'd stand there till
the ref pushed us apart. Both of us catching 
our breath. And those big guys just couldn't
believe it, that I was still there, not passed
out on the mat. One time I even whispered,
"It's over" in this guy's ear. Real quiet
so as not to embarrass him. Just, "Look."
And then I walked back to my corner
and then I came out and punched him once
in the jaw. He looked up like someone called
him for dinner and then he just fell. 
I can still see him against the blue of the mat
like when you're lying down and a man
comes into view above you with the whole sky
behind him. 
What I'm trying to say is
a body can take a hell of a lot. It's 
100 degrees today in this city.
And still the kids are out on the streets,
the women are outside at the market,
there's the girl in the next building learning
to play violin. And sure they're all sweating
and wiping their foreheads but who's gonna
say, "Stop." They don't want to. That's the truth.
GLASS JAW SONNET
By Gabrielle Calvocoressi
Glass jaw, chicken neck, bag of bones, heart sick.
Knuckle head, bug eyes, lily-livered chump.
Sweet feet. Heavy handed, gutless, headstrong,
Weak-kneed, barrel-chested, hairless, loose-lipped,
Lion hearted redneck. Hair of the dog.
Brainiac, bow-legged, slack-jawed punk. Head
Strong. Sweet spot. Gut Shot. Back away. Meat hooks.
Lazy eye, on the chin, stink eye, reed thin.
Face only a mother could love. Back down.
Nerves of steel, limp wrist, square jaw. Thin skinned, Soft-
Skull, small of the back, heart strings, limp wrist, green
Eyed monster, cauliflower ear. Knock-kneed,
Slim waisted, eye of the tiger. In God's
Arms. Thick neck. Ass backward. Harden my heart.

I was popular in certain circles
by Gabrielle Calvocoressi
Among the river rats and the leaves. 
For example. I was huge among the lichen,
and the waterfall couldn’t get enough 
of me. And the gravestones? 
I was hugely popular with the gravestones.
Also with the meat liquefying
beneath. I’d say to the carrion birds,
I’d say, “Are you an eagle? I can’t see
so well.” That made them laugh until we 
were screaming. Eagle. Imagine. 
The vultures loved me so much they’d feed
me the first morsel. From their delicate 
talons, which is what I called them:
such delicate talons. They loved me so deeply
they’d visit in pairs. One to feed me. 
One to cover my eyes with its velvety wings. 
Which were heavy as theater curtains. Which I was
sure to remark on. “Why can’t I see what I’m eating?” 
I’d say. And the wings would pull me into
the great bird’s chest. And I’d feel the nail 
inside my mouth.
What pals I was with all the scavengers!
And the dead things too. What pals. 
As for the living, the fox would not be outdone.
We’d sit on the cliff’s edge and watch the river
like a movie and I’d say, “I think last night…”
and the fox would put his paw on top of mine
and say, “Forget it. It’s done.” I mean,
we had fun. You haven’t lived until a fox
has whispered something the ferns told him
in your one good ear. I mean truly. 
You have not lived.
Jubilee
by Gabrielle Calvocoressi
Come down to the water. Bring your snare drum,
your hubcaps, the trash can lid. Bring every
joyful noise you've held at bay so long.
The fish have risen to the surface this early
morning: flounder, shrimp, and every blue crab
this side of Mobile. Bottom feeders? Please.
They shine like your Grandpa Les' Cadillac,
the one you rode in, slow so all the girls
could see. They called to you like katydids.
And the springs in that car sounded like tubas
as you moved up and down. Make a soulful sound
unto the leather and the wheel, praise the man
who had the good sense to build a front seat
like a bed, who knew you'd never buy a car
that big if you only meant to drive it.
Late Twentieth Century in the Form of Litany
BY GABRIELLE CALVOCORESSI
after Tom Andrews
The winter continued and I thought I heard voices.
Butchers sharpened their knives and I thought I heard voices.
Roy Orbison moaned and I thought I heard voices.
In the dark room of childhood I thought I heard voices.
My bike chain came loose and I thought I heard voices.
Mother choked on the bit and I thought I hear voices.
A war raged outside and I thought I heard voices.
My saxophone gleamed and I thought I heard voices.
The drive-in went dark and I thought I heard voices.
The speakers kept sizzling and I thought I heard voices.
Boys came in the pews and I thought I heard voices.
Mother choked on the bit and I thought I heard voices.
The mills locked their doors and I thought I heard voices.
Elvis kept playing dead and I thought I heard voices.
I watched her undress and I thought I heard voices.
Boys lit cats on fire and I thought I heard voices.
Flames crept toward our yard and I thought I heard voices.
The Klan marched through town and I thought I heard voices.
I met my maker and I thought I heard voices.
Gas filled the garage and I thought I heard voices.
I lied at confession and said I heard voices.
Someone shot J.R. and I thought I heard voices.
She said, “Get me out” and I thought I heard voices.
My vision got worse and I thought I heard voices.
I crawled into bed and I thought I heard voices.
The highway came through and I thought I heard voices.
I met my maker and I thought I heard voices.
I danced in my bedroom and I thought I heard voices.
The curtains caught fire and I thought I heard voices.
Mother took all the pills and I looked at the clock.
I placed my hand on the turntable and I thought I heard voices.
Joan Jett sang Crimson and Clover and I thought I heard voices:
Over and over and I thought I heard voices.
Dynamite
BY ANDERS CARLSON-WEE
My brother hits me hard with a stick
so I whip a choke-chain
across his face. We're playing
a game called Dynamite
where everything you throw
is a stick of dynamite,
unless it's pine. Pine sticks
are rifles and pinecones are grenades,
but everything else is dynamite.
I run down the driveway
and back behind the garage
where we keep the leopard frogs
in buckets of water
with logs and rock islands.
When he comes around the corner
the blood is pouring
out of his nose and down his neck
and he has a hammer in his hand.
I pick up his favorite frog
and say If you come any closer
I'll squeeze. He tells me I won't.
He starts coming closer.
I say a hammer isn't dynamite.
He reminds me that everything is dynamite.
bag lady, boxed
BY EMILY CARNEY
there is a plasticity to the soul that can fit inside
sweaters but not inside drawers. how many times
can one watch the same porn video before one
feels that they have become that porn video. how
many times can you attempt to untangle a cross. i
bought a black dress today — long, and covered with
sequins in the timorous shapes of stars. when i paid for it i
imagined myself sitting in it on a curb drinking beer with you,
so tell me what came first, the beer or the dress. you put
my broken buddha lamp in the hall today because it
“just didn’t fit.” i put you on the right side of my neck
during a sex dream for the same reason. pisces
is the blue cheese of the zodiac signs. are you a gemini?
rose-covered curtains give me anxiety and black gauze
has the polar-opposite effect. does styrofoam turn you
on? it is narcissistic to assume that anything likes to be liked by
you. it is narcissistic to assume that anything matters if
you don’t. i would like to be a man ray photograph
more than i would like to be a person. i would like to
be the glass carnival wallpaper at your lips more than
i would like to be a person. would you fuck me against
your window, even though it is phobic to be naked
in public? i have a feeling that although you are a poet,
you think that poets are phony. i have a feeling that it’s
all a joke to you and i like it, but i am not similar.
your lips came to me in a dream, red and shiny like
cartoon wool. your lips came to me in a honda
and i loved them away, and i pushed them anyway.
i wanted to be a porn star, your father wanted you to
make boxes. we both felt upset about the wanting. we both
learned that it is important to feel guiltless about smashing guitars.
i am a 5 p.m. person who buys cardigans to look like
trash. you are a 9 p.m. person who likes both
kinds of nylon against your fingers. i couldn’t
concentrate in yoga because i was fixated
on how much you’d like the ass of the
girl in front of me. i’m starting to believe that purple
hair is cliché and i don’t like it. i let myself get wet in the
rain today because i wanted you to be proud of me. when are my
poems going to stop you.
this is just the long string of molecules.
this is just the long.
Strange Hour
BY ANNE CARSON
 
 
3 a.m. cool palace roar of Oakland night.
Not even a siren then a siren far off.
Train passed a while ago now nothing.
 
Bare lightbulb in garage across the street who left it on.
 
Every sentence should contain a fact at least.
No one but myself ever seems to set foot on this balcony
strange to say.
Undertone of hatred I cannot eliminate
From my feelings of friendship for most people.
Clear at this hour.

You Don't Know What Love Is 
(an evening with Charles Bukowski) 
by Ramond Carver 
You don't know what love is Bukowski said 
I'm 51 years old look at me 
I'm in love with this young broad 
I got it bad but she's hung up too 
so it's all right man that's the way it should be 
I get in their blood and they can't get me out 
They try everything to get away from me 
but they all come back in the end 
They all came back to me except 
the one I planted 
I cried over that one 
but I cried easy in those days 
Don't let me get onto the hard stuff man 
I get mean then 
I could sit here and drink beer 
with you hippies all night 
I could drink ten quarts of this beer 
and nothing it's like water 
But let me get onto the hard stuff 
and I'll start throwing people out windows 
I'll throw anybody out the window 
I've done it 
But you don't know what love is 
You don't know because you've never 
been in love it's that simple 
I got this young broad see she's beautiful 
She calls me Bukowski 
Bukowski she says in this little voice 
and I say What 
But you don't know what love is 
I'm telling you what it is 
but you aren't listening 
There isn't one of you in this room 
would recognize love if it stepped up 
and buggered you in the ass 
I used to think poetry readings were a copout 
Look I'm 51 years old and I've been around 
I know they're a copout 
but I said to myself Bukowski 
starving is even more of a copout 
So there you are and nothing is like it should be 
That fellow what's his name Galway Kinnell 
I saw his picture in a magazine 
He has a handsome mug on him 
but he's a teacher 
Christ can you imagine 
But then you're teachers too 
here I am insulting you already 
No I haven't heard of him 
or him either 
They're all termites 
Maybe it's ego I don't read much anymore 
but these people w! ho build 
reputations on five or six books 
termites 
Bukowski she says 
Why do you listen to classical music all day 
Can't you hear her saying that 
Bukowski why do you listen to classical music all day 
That surprises you doesn't it 
You wouldn't think a crude bastard like me 
could listen to classical music all day 
Brahms Rachmaninoff Bartok Telemann 
Shit I couldn't write up here 
Too quiet up here too many trees 
I like the city that's the place for me 
I put on my classical music each morning 
and sit down in front of my typewriter 
I light a cigar and I smoke it like this see 
and I say Bukowski you're a lucky man 
Bukowski you've gone through it all 
and you're a lucky man 
and the blue smoke drifts across the table 
and I look out the window onto Delongpre Avenue 
and I see people walking up and down the sidewalk 
and I puff on the cigar like this 
and then I lay the cigar in the ashtray like this and take a deep breath 
and I begin to write 
Bukowski this is the life I say 
it's good to be poor it's good to have hemorrhoids 
it's good to be in love 
But you don't know what it's like 
You don't know what it's like to be in love 
If you could see her you'd know what I mean 
She thought I'd come up here and get laid 
She just knew it 
She told me she knew it 
Shit I'm 51 years old and she's 25 
and we're in love and she's jealous 
Jesus it's beautiful 
she said she'd claw my eyes out if I came up here 
and got laid 
Now that's love for you 
What do any of you know about it 
Let me tell you something 
I've met men in jail who had more style 
than the people who hang around colleges 
and go to poetry readings 
They're bloodsuckers who come to see 
if the poet's socks are dirty 
or if he smells under the arms 
Believe me I won't disappoint em 
But I want you to remember this 
there's only one poet in this room tonight 
only one poet in this town tonight 
maybe only one real poet in this country tonight 
and that's me 
What do any of you know about life 
What do any of you know about anything 
Which of you here has been fired from a job 
or else has beaten up your broad 
or else has been beaten up by your broad 
I was fired from Sears and Roebuck five times 
They'd fire me then hire me back again 
I was a stockboy for them when I was 35 
and then got canned for stealing cookies 
I know what's it like I've been there 
I'm 51 years old now and I'm in love 
This little broad she says 
Bukowski 
and I say What and she says 
I think you're full of shit 
and I say baby you understand me 
She's the only broad in the world 
man or woman 
I'd take that from 
But you don't know what love is 
They all came back to me in the end too 
every one of em came back 
except that one I told you about 
the one I planted We were together seven years 
We used to drink a lot 
I see a couple of typers in this room but 
I don't see any poets 
I'm not surprised 
You have to have been in love to write poetry 
and you don't know what it is to be in love 
that's your trouble 
Give me some of that stuff 
That's right no ice good 
That's good that's just fine 
So let's get this show on the road 
I know what I said but I'll have just one 
That tastes good 
Okay then let's go let's get this over with 
only afterwards don't anyone stand close 
to an open window
Dorothy Wordsworth
-by Jennifer Chang
The daffodils can go fuck themselves.
I’m tired of their crowds, yellow ranting
about the spastic sun that dines and shines
and shines. How are they any different
from me? I, too, have a big messy head
on a fragile stalk. I spin with the wind.
I flower and don’t apologize. There’s nothing
funny about good weather. O, spring again,
The critics nod. They know the old joy,
that wakeful quotidian, the dark plot
of future growing things, each one
labeled Narcissus nobilis or Jennifer Chang.
If I died falling from a helicopter, then
this would be an important poem. Then
the ex-boyfriends would swim to shore
declaiming their knowledge of my bulbous
youth. O, Flower, one said, why aren’t you
meat? But I won’t be another bashful shank.
The tulips have their nervous joie-de-vivre,
the lilacs their taunt. Fractious petals, stop
interrupting my poem with boring beauty.
All the boys are in the field gnawing raw
bones of ambition and calling it ardor. Who
the hell are they? This is a poem about war.
Greta Garbo
BY CHERYL CLARKE
easter sunday, april 15, 1990
I imagine you left Hollywood at thirty-six
because you had enough money to live as a lesbian
and didn’t have to buy into heterosexuality
after Christina
I imagine you overlooking the East River
or in Saks in fur coat
and sensible shoes asking,
‘please, do you have men’s pajama’s?’
a life of guarded anonymity, autonomy, alcoholism
all over Switzerland, the French Riviera,
and Italy wearing pants, flats, floppy hats,
dark glasses, and
toasting whiskey with an Alsace baroness
who liked it in the ass
yearly on the Rhine

Homage To My Hair
by Lucille Clifton
when I feel her jump up and dance 
i hear the music! my God 
i’m talking about my nappy hair! 
she is a challenge to your hand 
black man, 
she is as tasty on your tongue as good greens 
black man, 
she can touch your mind 
with her electric fingers and 
the grayer she do get, good God, 
the blacker she do be! 
blessing the boats
Lucille Clifton, 1936 - 2010
(at St. Mary’s)
may the tide
that is entering even now
the lip of our understanding
carry you out
beyond the face of fear
may you kiss
the wind then turn from it
certain that it will
love your back may you
open your eyes to water
water waving forever
and may you in your innocence
sail through this to that
Green Shade
BY HENRI COLE
[Nara Deer Park]
With my head on his spotted back
and his head on the grass—a little bored
with the quiet motion of life
and a cluster of mosquitoes making
hot black dunes in the air—we slept
with the smell of his fur engulfing us.
It was as if my dominant functions were gazing
and dreaming in a field of semiwild deer.
It was as if I could dream what I wanted,
and what I wanted was to long for nothing—
no facts, no reasons—never to say again,
“I want to be like him," and to lie instead
in the hollow deep grass—without esteem or riches—
gazing into the big, lacquer black eyes of a deer.
Homosexuality
BY HENRI COLE
First I saw the round bill, like a bud; then the sooty crested head, with avernal eyes flickering, distressed, then the peculiar long neck wrapping and unwrapping itself, like pity or love, when I removed the stovepipe cover of the bedroom chimney to free what was there and a duck crashed into the room (I am here in this fallen state), hitting her face, bending her throat back (my love, my inborn turbid wanting, at large all night), backing away, gnawing at her own wing linings (the poison of my life, the beast, the wolf), leaping out the window, which I held open (now clear, sane, serene), before climbing back naked into bed with you.
Radiant Ivory
BY HENRI COLE
After the death of my father, I locked
myself in my room, bored and animal-like.
The travel clock, the Johnnie Walker bottle,
the parrot tulips—everything possessed his face,
chaste and obscure. Snow and rain battered the air
white, insane, slathery. Nothing poured
out of me except sensibility, dilated.
It was as if I were sub-born—preverbal,
truculent, pure—with hard ivory arms
reaching out into a dark and crowded space,
illuminated like a perforated silver box
or a little room in which glowing cigarettes
came and went, like souls losing magnitude,
but none with the battered hand I knew.
War Rug
BY HENRI COLE
The pony and the deer are trapped by tanks,
and the lady with the guitar is sad beyond words.
Hurtling across the sky, a missile has mistaken
a vehicle for a helicopter, exploding in a ball
of white flame. Upside-down birds—red specks
of knotted wool—glow above the sideways trees.
Hidden among plants, a barefooted boy waits—
like the divine coroner—aiming his rifle at something,
enjoying the attentions of a gray doggy, or maybe
there’s a bullet already in his head.
American Sonnets: 91
BY WANDA COLEMAN
the gates of mercy slammed on the right foot.
they would not permit return and bent
a wing. there was no choice but
to learn to boogaloo. those horrid days
were not without their pleasure, learning
to swear and wearing mock leather so tight
eyes bulged, a stolen puff or two
behind crack-broken backs and tickled palms
in hallways dark, flirtations during choir practice
as the body organized itself against the will
(a mystic gone ballistic, not home but blood
on the range) as one descended on this effed-up
breeding hole of greeds—to suffer chronic seeings
was’t hunger or holiness spurred the sighting?
Ode for Donny Hathaway
BY WANDA COLEMAN
and then there are the one-hit zombies
cursed to an eternity of Monday nights
who runs our music does not make it
controls manufacture and marketing of rhythm
schemes on and fixes the charts. it’s polyphonic
from the dark of the chitlin to solid gold dawn
doublecrossed over
a love come down
after the plunge
sloshing around in limbo
that too sweet gospel splash
The Saturday Afternoon Blues
BY WANDA COLEMAN
can kill you
can fade your life away
friends are all out shopping
ain’t nobody home
suicide hotline is busy
and here i am on my own
with a pill and a bottle for company
and heart full of been done wrong
i’m a candidate for the coroner, a lyric for a song
saturday afternoons are killers
when the air is brisk and warm
ol’ sun he steady whispers
soon the life you know will be done
suicide line i can’t get you
best friend out of town
alone with a pill and a bottle
i drink my troubles down
the man i love is a killer
the man i love isthief
the man i love is a junky
the man i love is grief
some call saturday the sabbath
it’s the bottom of the line some say
whether last or first, my heart’s gonna burst
and there ain’t no help my way
here with a pill and a bottle
and a life full of been done wrong
i’m a candidate for the coroner, a lyric
for a song
Introduction to Poetry
BY BILLY COLLINS
I ask them to take a poem
and hold it up to the light
like a color slide
or press an ear against its hive.
I say drop a mouse into a poem
and watch him probe his way out,
or walk inside the poem's room
and feel the walls for a light switch.
I want them to waterski
across the surface of a poem
waving at the author's name on the shore.
But all they want to do
is tie the poem to a chair with rope
and torture a confession out of it.
They begin beating it with a hose
to find out what it really means.
Litany
BY BILLY COLLINS
 
You are the bread and the knife,
The crystal goblet and the wine...
-Jacques Crickillon
You are the bread and the knife,
the crystal goblet and the wine.
You are the dew on the morning grass
and the burning wheel of the sun.
You are the white apron of the baker,
and the marsh birds suddenly in flight.
However, you are not the wind in the orchard,
the plums on the counter,
or the house of cards.
And you are certainly not the pine-scented air.
There is just no way that you are the pine-scented air.
It is possible that you are the fish under the bridge,
maybe even the pigeon on the general's head,
but you are not even close
to being the field of cornflowers at dusk.
And a quick look in the mirror will show
that you are neither the boots in the corner
nor the boat asleep in its boathouse.
It might interest you to know,
speaking of the plentiful imagery of the world,
that I am the sound of rain on the roof.
I also happen to be the shooting star,
the evening paper blowing down an alley
and the basket of chestnuts on the kitchen table.
I am also the moon in the trees
and the blind woman's tea cup.
But don't worry, I'm not the bread and the knife.
You are still the bread and the knife.
You will always be the bread and the knife,
not to mention the crystal goblet and—somehow—the wine. 
Osso Buco 
By Billy Collins
	•	
	•	
I love the sound of the bone against the plate
and the fortress-like look of it
lying before me in a moat of risotto,
the meat soft as the leg of an angel
who has lived a purely airborne existence.
And best of all, the secret marrow,
the invaded privacy of the animal
prized out with a knife and wallowed down
with cold, exhilarating wine.
I am swaying now in the hour after dinner,
a citizen tilted back on his chair,
a creature with a full stomach--
something you don't hear much about in poetry,
that sanctuary of hunger and deprivation.
You know: the driving rain, the boots by the door,
small birds searching for berries in winter.
But tonight, the lion of contentment
has placed a warm heavy paw on my chest,
and I can only close my eyes and listen
to the drums of woe throbbing in the distance
and the sound of my wife's laughter
on the telephone in the next room,
the woman who cooked the savory osso buco,
who pointed to show the butcher the ones she wanted.
She who talks to her faraway friend
while I linger here at the table
with a hot, companionable cup of tea,
feeling like one of the friendly natives,
a reliable guide, maybe even the chief's favorite son.
Somewhere, a man is crawling up a rocky hillside
on bleeding knees and palms, an Irish penitent
carrying the stone of the world in his stomach;
and elsewhere people of all nations stare
at one another across a long, empty table.
But here, the candles give off their warm glow,
the same light that Shakespeare and Izaac Walton wrote by,
the light that lit and shadowed the faces of history.
Only now it plays on the blue plates,
the crumpled napkins, the crossed knife and fork.
In a while, one of us will go up to bed
and the other will follow.
Then we will slip below the surface of the night
into miles of water, drifting down and down
to the dark, soundless bottom
until the weight of dreams pulls us lower still,
below the shale and layered rock,
beneath the strata of hunger and pleasure,
into the broken bones of the earth itself,
into the marrow of the only place we know.
Workshop
BY BILLY COLLINS
I might as well begin by saying how much I like the title.  It gets me right away because I’m in a workshop now  so immediately the poem has my attention,  like the Ancient Mariner grabbing me by the sleeve.   And I like the first couple of stanzas,  the way they establish this mode of self-pointing  that runs through the whole poem  and tells us that words are food thrown down  on the ground for other words to eat.  I can almost taste the tail of the snake  in its own mouth,  if you know what I mean.   But what I’m not sure about is the voice,  which sounds in places very casual, very blue jeans,  but other times seems standoffish,  professorial in the worst sense of the word  like the poem is blowing pipe smoke in my face.  But maybe that’s just what it wants to do.   What I did find engaging were the middle stanzas,  especially the fourth one.  I like the image of clouds flying like lozenges  which gives me a very clear picture.  And I really like how this drawbridge operator  just appears out of the blue  with his feet up on the iron railing  and his fishing pole jigging—I like jigging—  a hook in the slow industrial canal below.  I love slow industrial canal below. All those l’s.   Maybe it’s just me,  but the next stanza is where I start to have a problem.  I mean how can the evening bump into the stars?  And what’s an obbligato of snow?  Also, I roam the decaffeinated streets.  At that point I’m lost. I need help.   The other thing that throws me off,  and maybe this is just me,  is the way the scene keeps shifting around.  First, we’re in this big aerodrome  and the speaker is inspecting a row of dirigibles,  which makes me think this could be a dream.  Then he takes us into his garden,  the part with the dahlias and the coiling hose,  though that’s nice, the coiling hose,  but then I’m not sure where we’re supposed to be.  The rain and the mint green light,  that makes it feel outdoors, but what about this wallpaper?  Or is it a kind of indoor cemetery?  There’s something about death going on here.   In fact, I start to wonder if what we have here  is really two poems, or three, or four,  or possibly none.   But then there’s that last stanza, my favorite.  This is where the poem wins me back,  especially the lines spoken in the voice of the mouse.  I mean we’ve all seen these images in cartoons before,  but I still love the details he uses  when he’s describing where he lives.  The perfect little arch of an entrance in the baseboard,  the bed made out of a curled-back sardine can,  the spool of thread for a table.  I start thinking about how hard the mouse had to work  night after night collecting all these things  while the people in the house were fast asleep,  and that gives me a very strong feeling,  a very powerful sense of something.  But I don’t know if anyone else was feeling that.  Maybe that was just me.  Maybe that’s just the way I read it.
Saturn.1
CAConrad, 1966
butterfly on a tissue box
not a real one
a painting
 a monarch
 one more sign
for anguish
 poured and
poured a choice to feel or
stack bricks between
I was sad when my
 talented friend started designing
television 	commercials
 he told me to grow up
 but the rocks in the desert I touch
 signal an endless new place something
 without money saying “never tire of
 demanding love for the world”
To the Angelbeast
BY EDUARDO C. CORRAL
For Arthur Russell
All that glitters isn’t music.
Once, hidden in tall grass,
I tossed fistfuls of dirt into the air:
doe after doe of leaping.
You said it was nothing
but a trick of the light. Gold
curves. Gold scarves.
Am I not your animal?
You’d wait in the orchard for hours
to watch a deer
break from the shadows.
You said it was like lifting a cello
out of its black case.
Quick Sketch of a Bullet
BY MICHAEL EARL CRAIG
There is a bullet here on my desk.
Tipped over on its side.
Its jacket is brass
and perfectly cylindrical.
It is cool. It is smooth.
Its weight is satisfying.
The tip—the actual bullet—
is blunt, is gray, is made of lead
and looks handmade,
like a carefully shaped dab
of gray mashed potatoes atop
its beautiful rocket.
As we roll this bullet back
and forth in the palm of
the hand, we can imagine its
precise dose of hidden powder,
waiting. This bullet. This
little can of something.
Something thoughtfully capped
with a quaint lead hat.
In closing I’d like to add that
you can actually write or draw with
a bullet. The lead tip is like
a very blunt pencil. And so I close
these thoughts on this bullet
by making with it a few straight lines
on a sheet of paper. By writing
my name. And date of birth.
And, “I am from Dayton.”
Then a few more straight lines.
The plainest lines imaginable.
Draft of a Dream
BY STEVEN CRAMER
The message I found on the Post-it note
went thus: love truth; expect to be found out.
Kid-style capitals proved I wrote it, but
left no clue why I'd swelled into a fat
clause no editor could edit; then, an entry
on a shrink's list of patient slang for sex—
her desk Norwegian teak, the mug of tea
on which she had affixed her Post-it notes
hot against her knuckle, their lips of stickum
loosening . . . And yet, I knew the note
to peel away at hour's end would terminate
our sessions—cool as the draft her linen
skirt was lifting to: Love, just stay benighted,
given everything I know you've got to hide.

Black Tambourine
BY HART CRANE
	The interests of a black man in a cellar 
	Mark tardy judgment on the world's closed door. 
	Gnats toss in the shadow of a bottle, 
	And a roach spans a crevice in the floor.
	Aesop, driven to pondering, found 
	Heaven with the tortoise and the bare; 
	Fox brush and sow ear top his grave 
	And mingling incantations on the air.
	The black man, forlorn in the cellar, 
	Wanders in some mid-kingdom, dark, that lies, 
	Between his tambourine, stuck on the wall, 
	And, in Africa, a carcass quick with flies.
Chaplinesque
-HART CRANE
We make our meek adjustments,
Contented with such random consolations
As the wind deposits
In slithered and too ample pockets.
For we can still love the world, who find
A famished kitten on the step, and know
Recesses for it from the fury of the street,
Or warm torn elbow coverts.
We will sidestep, and to the final smirk
Dally the doom of that inevitable thumb
That slowly chafes its puckered index toward us,
Facing the dull squint with what innocence
And what surprise!
And yet these fine collapses are not lies
More than the pirouettes of any pliant cane;
Our obsequies are, in a way, no enterprise.
We can evade you, and all else but the heart:
What blame to us if the heart live on.
The game enforces smirks; but we have seen
The moon in lonely alleys make
A grail of laughter of an empty ash can,
And through all sound of gaiety and quest
Have heard a kitten in the wilderness.
O Carib Isle!
The tarantula rattling at the lily’s foot
Across the feet of the dead, laid in white sand 
Near the coral beach—nor zigzag fiddle crabs 
Side-stilting from the path (that shift, subvert
And anagrammatize your name)—No, nothing here 
Below the palsy that one eucalyptus lifts 
In wrinkled shadows—mourns.
	And yet suppose
I count these nacreous frames of tropic death, 
Brutal necklaces of shells around each grave 
Squared off so carefully. Then
To the white sand I may speak a name, fertile
Albeit in a stranger tongue. Tree names, flower names 
Deliberate, gainsay death’s brittle crypt. Meanwhile 
The wind that knots itself in one great death—
Coils and withdraws. So syllables want breath.
But where is the Captain of this doubloon isle
Without a turnstile? Who but catchword crabs
Patrols the dry groins of the underbrush?
What man, or What
Is Commissioner of mildew throughout the ambushed senses? 
His Carib mathematics web the eyes’ baked lenses!
Under the poinciana, of a noon or afternoon
Let fiery blossoms clot the light, render my ghost 
Sieved upward, white and black along the air 
Until it meets the blue’s comedian host.
Let not the pilgrim see himself again
For slow evisceration bound like those huge terrapin 
Each daybreak on the wharf, their brine-caked eyes;
—Spiked, overturned; such thunder in their strain! 
And clenched beaks coughing for the surge again!
Slagged of the hurricane—I, cast within its flow, 
Congeal by afternoons here, satin and vacant.
You have given me the shell, Satan,—carbonic amulet 
Sere of the sun exploded in the sea.
LITANY
By Carolyn Creedon
 
Tom, will you let me love you in your restaurant?
I will let you make me a sandwich of your invention and I will eat it and call
it a carolyn sandwich. Then you will kiss my lips and taste the mayon­naise and 
that is how you shall love me in my restaurant
Tom, will you come to my empty beige apartment and help me set up my daybed?
Yes, and I will put the screws in loosely so that when we move on it, later,
it will rock like a cradle and then you will know you are my baby
Tom, I am sitting on my dirt bike on the deck. Will you come out from the kitchen
and watch the people with me?
Yes, and then we will race to your bedroom. I will win and we will tangle up
on your comforter while the sweat rains from our stomachs and fore­heads
Tom, the stars are sitting in tonight like gumball gems in a little girl’s 
jewelry box. Later can we walk to the duck pond?
Yes, and we can even go the long way past the jungle gym. I will push you on
the swing, but promise me you’ll hold tight. If you fall I might disappear
Tom, can we make a baby together? I want to be a big pregnant woman with a
loved face and give you a squalling red daughter.
No, but I will come inside you and you will be my daughter
Tom, will you stay the night with me and sleep so close that we are one person?
No, but I will lie down on your sheets and taste you. There will be feathers
of you on my tongue and then I will never forget you
Tom, when we are in line at the convenience store can I put my hands in your
back pockets and my lips and nose in your baseball shirt and feel the crook
of your shoulder blade?
No, but later you can lie against me and almost touch me and when I go I will
leave my shirt for you to sleep in so that always at night you will be pressed
up against the thought of me
Tom, if I weep and want to wait until you need me will you promise that someday
you will need me?
No, but I will sit in silence while you rage, you can knock the chairs down
any mountain. I will always be the same and you will always wait
Tom, will you climb on top of the dumpster and steal the sun for me? It’s just
hanging there and I want it.
No, it will burn my fingers. No one can have the sun: it’s on loan from God.
But I will draw a picture of it and send it to you from Richmond and then you
can smooth out the paper and you will have a piece of me as well as the sun
Tom, it’s so hot here, and I think I’m being born. Will you come back from
Richmond and baptise me with sex and cool water?
I will come back from Richmond. I will smooth the damp spiky hairs from the
back of your neck and then I will lick the salt off it. Then I will leave
Tom, Richmond is so far away. How will I know how you love me?
I have left you. That is how you will know

from The Best of the Best American Poetry (Harold Bloom, Ed.)
I Know a Man
BY ROBERT CREELEY
As I sd to my 
friend, because I am 
always talking, -- John, I 
sd, which was not his 
name, the darkness sur- 
rounds us, what 
can we do against 
it, or else, shall we & 
why not, buy a goddamn big car, 
drive, he sd, for 
christ's sake, look 
out where yr going. 
Buffalo Bill’s
Buffalo Bill 's defunct who used to ride a watersmooth-silver stallion and break onetwothreefourfive pigeonsjustlikethat Jesus  he was a handsome man and what i want to know is how do you like your blueeyed boy Mister Death
the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls 
the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls are unbeautiful and have comfortable minds (also, with the church's protestant blessings daughters, unscented shapeless spirited) they believe in Christ and Longfellow,both dead, are invariably interested in so many things- at the present writing one still finds delighted fingers knitting for the is it Poles? perhaps. While permanent faces coyly bandy scandal of Mrs. N and Professor D ....the Cambridge ladies do not care,above Cambridge if sometimes in its box of sky lavender and cornerless, the moon rattles like a fragment of angry candy
[in Just-]
BY E. E. CUMMINGS
in Just- 
spring	when the world is mud- 
luscious the little 
lame balloonman 
whistles	far	and wee 
and eddieandbill come 
running from marbles and 
piracies and it's 
spring 
when the world is puddle-wonderful 
the queer 
old balloonman whistles 
far	and 	wee 
and bettyandisbel come dancing 
from hop-scotch and jump-rope and 
it's 
spring 
and 
 the 
goat-footed 
balloonMan	whistles 
far 
and 
wee
Skateboarding
By Peter Davis
I skate for me and my homeboys!
We grind and carve!
Let’s skate! We yell that shit, Tina.
We fucking yell it!
We’re behind the grocery store, Tina,
shredding this curb and
John Law comes up and is like
Scram! Fuckers! So lame!
And I’m adjusting my beret.
And Tina, my skate Betty, I know
you love me, but I can’t
even explain how much
I will skate or die!
BLACK FUNK 
by Kwame Dawes
The rigid of my jaw bone
is power forged in the oven
of every blow I have felt.
My water walk is something like
compensation for a limp.
Don't begrudge me my sashay
walk, it's all I got sometimes.
'Cause I know the way you stare,
pale blue eyes like a machete edge
catching the colour of new sky,
the way you barely whisper
your orders, spit out the food,
complain about my shuffling gait,
snorting out my funky smell,
find fault in each task I do,
never right, never good enough,
curse my children like dogs,
cause I know you just hurting
drooling your bitterness
when my back is turned,
when the shape of my black ass
swings that way you hate,
sashaying through this room of daggers.
I know you're wondering what I've got
down there, in my belly, in my thighs,
make him leave your side,
crawl out of his pale sick skin
and howl like a beast at night,
whimper like a motherless babe
suckling on me, suckling on me
You can't hide the shame you feel
to know I sometimes turn him back.
I know you know it, from the way,
he comes on you hard and hurried,
searching for a hole to weep his soul in—
yes, I turn him back when I want,
and he still comes back for more.
I've got my pride sometimes.
I know the way you try to read me
try to be me, can't be me,
never be me, never feel the black
of me, never know the blues in me,
'cause you never want to see you
in me even though we bleed together,
finding each other's tidal rhythms
and bloat together like sisters,
hoarding the waters of the moon together
So I sashay through your life,
averting the blades with my leather skin.
I abuse you, and when he bawls,
that is my pride at work,
all I've got sometimes.
I'll cook your meals
until he keels over,
and you just have to take it
'cause I took it with no fuss
when he forced his nothing self on me,
while my babies sucked their thumbs
within the sound of my whimpering;
I paid baby;
I'm just reaping what y'all done sowed
 
Sometime I could sit down
and remember better
than I think I could remember—
from way back—better than I can do now.
I may say something today,
or see something today
or somebody may say something,
and it goes out.
How to Look at Mexican Highways
BY MÓNICA DE LA TORRE
1. You are not going anywhere.
 	1.1. No one is waiting for you.
 	1.2. In case someone is waiting for you, you can always explain
	the delay later.
 	1.3. Blame it on the traffic, no one else knows that you chose to walk.
2. Don’t look at the pavement, look at the things that you don’t see
	when you’re indoors.
 	2.1. Water towers.
 	2.2. Cables.
	2.2.1. Cables bringing other people’s voices and faces onto
 	TV monitors.
	2.2.2. Cables bringing electricity to light bulbs and
	refrigerators.
	2.3. Laundry on clotheslines.
	2.4. Empty cans of food.
	2.4.1. With flowers growing out of them.
	2.4.2. With cactuses growing out of them.
3. Feel the waves surrounding you.
 	3.1. Waves bringing other people’s voices to the speakers of your
	sound system.
 	3.2. Waves of street sounds.
4. Measure how fast you can run up and down staircases; compare that
	to the speed of the cars driving by.
5. When you tire, stand in the middle of the overpass.
	5.1. Look down.
	5.2. Try to look ahead, attempt to delineate the city’s skyline.
	5.2.1. If there’s too much pollution, look down again.
	5.2.2. Hold on tighter to the rail.
	5.2.3. Stay there a bit longer; remember no one is waiting
	for you.
	5.2.4. You’re not going anywhere.
6. Through the rails you will see stories unfolding on the street.
	6.1. Pay attention.
	6.2. You are not they.
	6.3. They are not they.
 	6.3.1. They are one plus one plus one, indefinitely.
7. You’re surrounded by monads going somewhere.
8. There is a purpose to their movement.
9. Desire is a Federacy.
 
How to Look at Mexican Highways
BY MÓNICA DE LA TORRE
1. You are not going anywhere.
 	1.1. No one is waiting for you.
 	1.2. In case someone is waiting for you, you can always explain
	the delay later.
 	1.3. Blame it on the traffic, no one else knows that you chose to walk.
2. Don’t look at the pavement, look at the things that you don’t see
	when you’re indoors.
 	2.1. Water towers.
 	2.2. Cables.
	2.2.1. Cables bringing other people’s voices and faces onto
 	TV monitors.
	2.2.2. Cables bringing electricity to light bulbs and
	refrigerators.
	2.3. Laundry on clotheslines.
	2.4. Empty cans of food.
	2.4.1. With flowers growing out of them.
	2.4.2. With cactuses growing out of them.
3. Feel the waves surrounding you.
 	3.1. Waves bringing other people’s voices to the speakers of your
	sound system.
 	3.2. Waves of street sounds.
4. Measure how fast you can run up and down staircases; compare that
	to the speed of the cars driving by.
5. When you tire, stand in the middle of the overpass.
	5.1. Look down.
	5.2. Try to look ahead, attempt to delineate the city’s skyline.
	5.2.1. If there’s too much pollution, look down again.
	5.2.2. Hold on tighter to the rail.
	5.2.3. Stay there a bit longer; remember no one is waiting
	for you.
	5.2.4. You’re not going anywhere.
6. Through the rails you will see stories unfolding on the street.
	6.1. Pay attention.
	6.2. You are not they.
	6.3. They are not they.
 	6.3.1. They are one plus one plus one, indefinitely.
7. You’re surrounded by monads going somewhere.
8. There is a purpose to their movement.
9. Desire is a Federacy.
Formerly Communist Love Sonnet
BY CONNIE DEANOVICH
The Chinese concubine feeling has left and the 
sky hovers like the preparation of a revolutionary speech.
You, my long walk with all that expectation 
the sexy lunches, thousands of them,
and then all that religion of eroticism.
Beneath the squeeze on my heart is a stranglehold.
You, like a little Italian porcelain village that’s all over the 
shop window saying admire this image of foreverness.
The red scarf is factory-made but silky
and it’s what I’d flutter over your face if you were here 
and it would be cheap greasy hypnotism, my own malarkey
and we’d be on the southside, at the boat docks, and
I’d kiss you beside the stretch of a Russian grain ship, its 
hammer and sickle like the sending out of rescue choppers.
High and Bright and Fine and Ice
BY DARCIE DENNIGAN
When the motorboat man asked me to love him
 
I whispered precipice
the word for the no-more-boyfriend feeling
 
because precipice contains ice (practically twice)
because I wanted teetering—
 
What? he said
Yes
 
His ears from the engines—so hard of hearing—his hands always
so hot
 
Mid our first winter—I’d clung so long to the dock
he had to crowbar my fingers off
 
Each digit cracked so cleanly
Would you say they break like icicles? I asked sweetly
 
I knew I was nothing! But if I could sustain one song—
I is, I is, I is I is I is
 
I could be: ice
 
 Sex on the bathroom’s cold marble counter was best
I whispered statuette, monument
 
What? he, sculpting my legs, said
 
Yes
 
 
The child? I named her Cecily
It sounded like iced lily
 
For pure, I said pristine
At the ocean, I said brine
 
Isle for vacation; for flowers, edelweiss
 
But when I said (only of late, late!) I choose ice
Brittle pearls broke behind my syllables
 
Did he hear me?
Again, twice, thrice:
 
For my love
we would need to live
in a great pyramid
We would need to sleep
beneath the continental shelf
with Antarctic crust blanketing us
The only driveway to any kind of house
is an iceberg-ridden Northwest Passage
When I whispered universe
you were to translate it as
one bright line
one bright rime
The Other Forest
BY DARCIE DENNIGAN
	To insects – sensual lust . . . was how I began my talk . . . On Paradise . . . at the local library . . . It would be a nuns-only audience . . . I knew . . . ! So I’d donned my habit . . . wore a ton of More Spirit Than Flesh make-up . . . And . . . brought props . . . props in my large portable closet . . . l’Armoire Secrète . . . Got to the library assembly room . . . Fuck . . . the one . . . only . . . person in the audience . . . my husband . . . Who . . . I knew . . . ! always preferred I get right to the . . . Thus . . . Paradise is sex sans bodies . . . Paradise: Travesty . . . Mechanical birds . . . Exegetes . . . Was I losing . . . ? Quickly to witticisms . . . I don’t like sexing but I love having sexed . . . The audience member . . . the audience member was . . . demanding to see the inside . . . of l’Armoire Secrète . . . Fuck . . . I . . . I began fumbling . . . with the golden lock . . . Took a minute for nunly explication . . . Sex lubricates . . . the locks on the gates . . . Paradise-wise . . . When the Armoire doors were . . . I stepped aside . . . let the audience member . . . He got very close . . . peered in . . . put his whole head . . . I regret he said . . . he was nervous trying to joke . . . I regret I’ve forgotten my spelunking costume . . . Shush I said . . . Keep looking . . . Though really there was nothing to see . . .l’Armoire Secrète was empty . . . Finally . . . he stood . . . squinting in the library light . . . he peered . . . right at me . . . Hey he said . . . he came very close . . . This was how a naked marble statue felt . . . Hey he said . . . gentle-wise . . . Love . . . he said . . . Love it’s me don’t you recognize . . . Of course I did . . . had . . . But had to pretend I did . . . not . . .
Will the audience member please take his seat . . . I said it resolutely . . . though not . . . firmly . . . I began again . . . On Paradise . . . My voice as clean as the Dewey Decimal System . . . I brought up my On Paradise PowerPoint . . . visuals of forests . . . trees . . . He was seated . . . Once my car broke down in front of a nunnery . . . over the door of which was inscribed . . . from Dante . . .
Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita
mi ritrovai per una selva oscura
and I thought . . . at the time . . . I had been thinking una selva oscura . . . had to mean dark self . . . never bothering to . . . the Italian . . . I just . . . plunged . . . I’d donned a habit . . . black robes . . .. . . Was I saying all this out loud . . . or in my head . . . ? It’s hard to tell the difference . . . if . . . you talk enough . . . I donned these black robes and lived in shadows and . . . It was time for a rhetorical gesture . . . Of course of course I said with a nod . . . a nod magnanimous . . . a nod sagacious . . . a nod to a slide of particularly dark . . . trees . . . Of course the wilderness spreads woe unto him . . . who carries the wilderness with him . . . and the audience member . . . I had him . . . I knew . . . Thus . . . I parted my robes . . . to show . . . marching in and out of my cunt . . . the ants . . . Then . . . the robes . . . I shut . . . He . . . the audience . . . was no longer standing . . . very close . . . Goodness . . . ! I chided . . . Such distance . . .
My Brother at 3 A.M.
BY NATALIE DIAZ

He sat cross-legged, weeping on the steps
when Mom unlocked and opened the front door.
	O God, he said. O God.
	He wants to kill me, Mom.
When Mom unlocked and opened the front door
at 3 a.m., she was in her nightgown, Dad was asleep.
He wants to kill me, he told her,
looking over his shoulder.
3 a.m. and in her nightgown, Dad asleep,
What's going on? she asked. Who wants to kill you?
He looked over his shoulder.
The devil does. Look at him, over there.
She asked, What are you on? Who wants to kill you?
The sky wasn’t black or blue but the green of a dying night.
The devil, look at him, over there.
He pointed to the corner house.
The sky wasn’t black or blue but the dying green of night.
Stars had closed their eyes or sheathed their knives.
My brother pointed to the corner house.
His lips flickered with sores.
Stars had closed their eyes or sheathed their knives.
O God, I can see the tail, he said. O God, look.
Mom winced at the sores on his lips.
It’s sticking out from behind the house.
O God, see the tail, he said. Look at the goddamned tail.
He sat cross-legged, weeping on the front steps.
Mom finally saw it, a hellish vision, my brother.
O God, O God, she said.
Falling
BY JAMES L. DICKEY
A 29-year-old stewardess fell ... to her 
death tonight when she was swept 
through an emergency door that sud- 
denly sprang open ... The body ... 
was found ... three hours after the 
accident.
	—New York Times
The states when they black out and lie there rolling	when they turn
To something transcontinental	move by	drawing moonlight out of the great
One-sided stone hung off the starboard wingtip	some sleeper next to
An engine is groaning for coffee	and there is faintly coming in
Somewhere the vast beast-whistle of space. In the galley with its racks
Of trays	she rummages for a blanket	and moves in her slim tailored
Uniform to pin it over the cry at the top of the door. As though she blew
The door down with a silent blast from her lungs	frozen	she is black
Out finding herself	with the plane nowhere and her body taking by the throat
The undying cry of the void	falling	living	beginning to be something
That no one has ever been and lived through	screaming without enough air
Still neat	lipsticked	stockinged	girdled by regulation	her hat
Still on	her arms and legs in no world	and yet spaced also strangely
With utter placid rightness on thin air	taking her time	she holds it
In many places	and now, still thousands of feet from her death she seems
To slow	she develops interest	she turns in her maneuverable body
To watch it. She is hung high up in the overwhelming middle of things in her
Self	in low body-whistling wrapped intensely	in all her dark dance-weight
Coming down from a marvellous leap	with the delaying, dumfounding ease
Of a dream of being drawn	like endless moonlight to the harvest soil
Of a central state of one’s country	with a great gradual warmth coming
Over her	floating	finding more and more breath in what she has been using
For breath	as the levels become more human	seeing clouds placed honestly
Below her left and right	riding slowly toward them	she clasps it all
To her and can hang her hands and feet in it in peculiar ways	and
Her eyes opened wide by wind, can open her mouth as wide	wider and suck
All the heat from the cornfields	can go down on her back with a feeling
Of stupendous pillows stacked under her	and can turn	turn as to someone
In bed	smile, understood in darkness	can go away	slant	slide
Off tumbling	into the emblem of a bird with its wings half-spread
Or whirl madly on herself	in endless gymnastics in the growing warmth
Of wheatfields rising toward the harvest moon.	There is time to live
In superhuman health	seeing mortal unreachable lights far down seeing
An ultimate highway with one late priceless car probing it	arriving
In a square town	and off her starboard arm the glitter of water catches
The moon by its one shaken side	scaled, roaming silver	My God it is good
And evil	lying in one after another of all the positions for love
Making	dancing	sleeping	and now cloud wisps at her no
Raincoat	no matter	all small towns brokenly brighter from inside
Cloud	she walks over them like rain	bursts out to behold a Greyhound
Bus shooting light through its sides	it is the signal to go straight
Down like a glorious diver	then feet first	her skirt stripped beautifully
Up	her face in fear-scented cloths	her legs deliriously bare	then
Arms out	she slow-rolls over	steadies out	waits for something great
To take control of her	trembles near feathers	planes head-down
The quick movements of bird-necks turning her head	gold eyes the insight-
eyesight of owls blazing into the hencoops	a taste for chicken overwhelming
Her	the long-range vision of hawks enlarging all human lights of cars
Freight trains	looped bridges	enlarging the moon racing slowly
Through all the curves of a river	all the darks of the midwest blazing
From above. A rabbit in a bush turns white	the smothering chickens
Huddle	for over them there is still time for something to live
With the streaming half-idea of a long stoop	a hurtling	a fall
That is controlled	that plummets as it wills	turns gravity
Into a new condition, showing its other side like a moon	shining
New Powers	there is still time to live on a breath made of nothing
But the whole night	time for her to remember to arrange her skirt
Like a diagram of a bat	tightly it guides her	she has this flying-skin
Made of garments	and there are also those sky-divers on tv	sailing
In sunlight	smiling under their goggles	swapping batons back and forth
And He who jumped without a chute and was handed one by a diving
Buddy. She looks for her grinning companion	white teeth	nowhere
She is screaming	singing hymns	her thin human wings spread out
From her neat shoulders	the air beast-crooning to her	warbling
And she can no longer behold the huge partial form of the world	now
She is watching her country lose its evoked master shape	watching it lose
And gain	get back its houses and peoples	watching it bring up
Its local lights	single homes	lamps on barn roofs	if she fell
Into water she might live	like a diver	cleaving	perfect	plunge
Into another	heavy silver	unbreathable	slowing	saving
Element: there is water	there is time to perfect all the fine
Points of diving	feet together	toes pointed	hands shaped right
To insert her into water like a needle	to come out healthily dripping
And be handed a Coca-Cola	there they are	there are the waters
Of life	the moon packed and coiled in a reservoir	so let me begin
To plane across the night air of Kansas	opening my eyes superhumanly
Bright	to the damned moon	opening the natural wings of my jacket
By Don Loper	moving like a hunting owl toward the glitter of water
One cannot just fall	just tumble screaming all that time	one must use
It	she is now through with all	through all	clouds	damp	hair
Straightened	the last wisp of fog pulled apart on her face like wool revealing
New darks	new progressions of headlights along dirt roads from chaos
And night	a gradual warming	a new-made, inevitable world of one’s own
Country	a great stone of light in its waiting waters	hold	hold out
For water: who knows when what correct young woman must take up her body
And fly	and head for the moon-crazed inner eye of midwest imprisoned
Water	stored up for her for years	the arms of her jacket slipping
Air up her sleeves to go	all over her? What final things can be said
Of one who starts her sheerly in her body in the high middle of night
Air	to track down water like a rabbit where it lies like life itself
Off to the right in Kansas? She goes toward	the blazing-bare lake
Her skirts neat	her hands and face warmed more and more by the air
Rising from pastures of beans	and under her	under chenille bedspreads
The farm girls are feeling the goddess in them struggle and rise brooding
On the scratch-shining posts of the bed	dreaming of female signs
Of the moon	male blood like iron	of what is really said by the moan
Of airliners passing over them at dead of midwest midnight	passing
Over brush fires	burning out in silence on little hills	and will wake
To see the woman they should be	struggling on the rooftree to become
Stars: for her the ground is closer	water is nearer	she passes
It	then banks	turns	her sleeves fluttering differently as she rolls
Out to face the east, where the sun shall come up from wheatfields she must
Do something with water	fly to it	fall in it	drink it	rise
From it	but there is none left upon earth	the clouds have drunk it back
The plants have sucked it down	there are standing toward her only
The common fields of death	she comes back from flying to falling
Returns to a powerful cry	the silent scream with which she blew down
The coupled door of the airliner	nearly	nearly losing hold
Of what she has done	remembers	remembers the shape at the heart
Of cloud	fashionably swirling	remembers she still has time to die
Beyond explanation. Let her now take off her hat in summer air the contour
Of cornfields	and have enough time to kick off her one remaining
Shoe with the toes	of the other foot	to unhook her stockings
With calm fingers, noting how fatally easy it is to undress in midair
Near death	when the body will assume without effort any position
Except the one that will sustain it	enable it to rise	live
Not die	nine farms hover close	widen	eight of them separate, leaving
One in the middle	then the fields of that farm do the same	there is no
Way to back off	from her chosen ground	but she sheds the jacket
With its silver sad impotent wings	sheds the bat’s guiding tailpiece
Of her skirt	the lightning-charged clinging of her blouse	the intimate
Inner flying-garment of her slip in which she rides like the holy ghost
Of a virgin	sheds the long windsocks of her stockings	absurd
Brassiere	then feels the girdle required by regulations squirming
Off her: no longer monobuttocked	she feels the girdle flutter	shake
In her hand	and float	upward	her clothes rising off her ascending
Into cloud	and fights away from her head the last sharp dangerous shoe
Like a dumb bird	and now will drop insoon	now will drop
In like this	the greatest thing that ever came to Kansas	down from all
Heights	all levels of American breath	layered in the lungs from the frail
Chill of space to the loam where extinction slumbers in corn tassels thickly
And breathes like rich farmers counting: will come along them after
Her last superhuman act	the last slow careful passing of her hands
All over her unharmed body	desired by every sleeper in his dream:
Boys finding for the first time their loins filled with heart’s blood
Widowed farmers whose hands float under light covers to find themselves
Arisen at sunrise	the splendid position of blood unearthly drawn
Toward clouds	all feel something	pass over them as she passes
Her palms over her long legsher small breasts	and deeply between
Her thighs	her hair shot loose from all pins	streaming in the wind
Of her body	let her come openly	trying at the last second to land
On her back	This is itthis
	All those who find her impressed
In the soft loam	gone down	driven well into the image of her body
The furrows for miles flowing in upon her where she lies very deep
In her mortal outline	in the earth as it is in cloud	can tell nothing
But that she is there	inexplicable	unquestionable	and remember
That something broke in them as well	and began to live and die more
When they walked for no reason into their fields to where the whole earth
Caught her	interrupted her maiden flight	told her how to lie she cannot
Turn	go away	cannot move	cannot slide off it and assume another
Position	no sky-diver with any grin could save her	hold her in his arms
Plummet with her	unfold above her his wedding silks	she can no longer
Mark the rain with whirling women that take the place of a dead wife
Or the goddess in Norwegian farm girls	or all the back-breaking whores
Of Wichita. All the known air above her is not giving up quite one
Breath	it is all gone	and yet not dead	not anywhere else
Quite	lying still in the field on her back	sensing the smells
Of incessant growth try to lift her	a little sight left in the corner
Of one eye	fading	seeing something wave	lies believing
That she could have made it	at the best part of her brief goddess
State	to water	gone in headfirst	come out smiling	invulnerable
Girl in a bathing-suit ad	but she is lying like a sunbather at the last
Of moonlight	half-buried in her impact on the earth	not far
From a railroad trestle	a water tank	she could see if she could
Raise her head from her modest hole	with her clothes beginning
To come down all over Kansas	into bushes	on the dewy sixth green
Of a golf course	one shoe	her girdle coming down fantastically
On a clothesline, where it belongs	her blouse on a lightning rod:
Lies in the fields	in this field	on her broken back as though on
A cloud she cannot drop through	while farmers sleepwalk without
Their women from houses	a walk like falling toward the far waters
Of life	in moonlight	toward the dreamed eternal meaning of their farms
Toward the flowering of the harvest in their hands	that tragic cost
Feels herself go	go toward	go outward	breathes at last fully
Not	and tries	less	once	tries	triesah, god—
The Sheep Child
BY JAMES L. DICKEY
Farm boys wild to couple
With anythingwith soft-wooded trees 
With mounds of earthmounds 
Of pinestrawwill keep themselves off 
Animals by legends of their own: 
In the hay-tunnel dark
And dung of barns, they will 
Say	I have heard tell
That in a museum in Atlanta 
Way back in a corner somewhere 
There’s this thing that’s only half 
Sheeplike a woolly baby
Pickled in alcoholbecause 
Those things can’t live.his eyes
Are openbut you can’t stand to look 
I heard from somebody who ...
But this is now almost all 
Gone. The boys have taken 
Their own true wives in the city,
The sheep are safe in the west hill
Pasturebut we who were born there
Still are not sure. Are we,
Because we remember, remembered
In the terrible dust of museums?
Merely with his eyes, the sheep-child may 
Be sayingsaying
 I am here, in my father’s house.
 I who am half of your world, came deeply
 To my mother in the long grass
 Of the west pasture, where she stood like moonlight
 Listening for foxes. It was something like love
 From another world that seized her
 From behind, and she gave, not lifting her head 
 Out of dew, without ever looking, her best
 Self to that great need. Turned loose, she dipped her face 
 Farther into the chill of the earth, and in a sound 
 Of sobbingof something stumbling
 Away, began, as she must do,
 To carry me. I woke, dying,
 In the summer sun of the hillside, with my eyes
 Far more than human. I saw for a blazing moment 
 The great grassy world from both sides,
 Man and beast in the round of their need,
 And the hill wind stirred in my wool,
 My hoof and my hand clasped each other,
 I ate my one meal
 Of milk, and died
 Staring. From dark grass I came straight
 
 To my father’s house, whose dust
 Whirls up in the halls for no reason
 When no one comespiling deep in a hellish mild corner, 
 And, through my immortal waters,
 I meet the sun’s grains eye
 To eye, and they fail at my closet of glass.
 Dead, I am most surely living
 In the minds of farm boys: I am he who drives
 Them like wolves from the hound bitch and calf
 And from the chaste ewe in the wind.
 They go into woodsinto bean fieldsthey go
 Deep into their known right hands. Dreaming of me, 
 They groanthey waitthey suffer
 Themselves, they marry, they raise their kind.

James Dickey, The Whole Motion: Collected Poems 1945-1992

The Shark’s Parlor
 
Memory: I can take my head and strike it on a wall 	on Cumberland Island
Where the night tide came crawling under the stairs 	came up the first
Two or three steps 	and the cottage stood on poles all night
With the sea sprawled under it 	as we dreamed of the great fin circling
Under the bedroom floor. In daylight there was my first brassy taste of beer
And Payton Ford and I came back from the Glynn County slaughterhouse
With a bucket of entrails and blood. We tied one end of a hawser
To a spindling porch-pillar and rowed straight out of the house
Three hundred yards into the vast front yard of windless blue water
The rope out slithering its coil 	the two-gallon jug stoppered and sealed
With wax 	and a ten-foot chain leader 	a drop-forged shark-hook nestling.
We cast our blood on the waters 	the land blood easily passing
For sea blood 	and we sat in it for a moment with the stain spreading
Out from the boat 	sat in a new radiance 	in the pond of blood in the sea
Waiting for fins 	waiting to spill our guts also in the glowing water.
We dumped the bucket, and baited the hook with a run-over collie pup. The jug
Bobbed, trying to shake off the sun as a dog would shake off the sea.
We rowed to the house 	feeling the same water lift the boat a new way,
All the time seeing where we lived rise and dip with the oars.
We tied up and sat down in rocking chairs, one eye on the other responding
To the blue-eye wink of the jug. Payton got us a beer and we sat
All morning sat there with blood on our minds 	the red mark out
In the harbor slowly failing us 	then 	the house groaned 	the rope
Sprang out of the water 	splinters flew 	we leapt from our chairs
And grabbed the rope 	hauled 	did nothing 	the house coming subtly
Apart 	all around us 	underfoot 	boards beginning to sparkle like sand
Pulling out 	the tarred poles we slept propped-up on 	leaning to sea
As in land-wind 	crabs scuttling from under the floor 	as we took runs about
Two more porch-pillars 	and looked out and saw 	something 	a fish-flash
An almighty fin in trouble	a moiling of secret forces 	a false start
Of water	a round wave growing 	in the whole of Cumberland Sound the one ripple.
Payton took off without a word 	I could not hold him either
But clung to the rope anyway 	it was the whole house bending
Its nails that held whatever it was 	coming in a little and like a fool
I took up the slack on my wrist. The rope drew gently jerked 	I lifted
Clean off the porch and hit the water 	the same water it was in
I felt in blue blazing terror at the bottom of the stairs and scrambled
Back up looking desperately into the human house as deeply as I could
Stopping my gaze before it went out the wire screen of the back door
Stopped it on the thistled rattan 	the rugs I lay on and read
On my mother’s sewing basket with next winter’s socks spilling from it
The flimsy vacation furniture 	a bucktoothed picture of myself.
Payton came back with three men from a filling station and glanced at me
Dripping water 	inexplicable 	then we all grabbed hold like a tug-of-war.
We were gaining a little 	from us a cry went up 	from everywhere
People came running. Behind us the house filled with men and boys.
On the third step from the sea I took my place 	looking down the rope
Going into the ocean, humming and shaking off drops. A houseful
Of people put their backs into it 	going up the steps from me
Into the living room 	through the kitchen 	down the back stairs
Up and over a hill of sand 	across a dust road 	and onto a raised field
Of dunes 	we were gaining 	the rope in my hands began to be wet
With deeper water 	all other haulers retreated through the house
But Payton and I on the stairs 	drawing hand over hand on our blood
Drawing into existence by the nose 	a huge body 	becoming
A hammerhead 	rolling in beery shallows 	and I began to let up
But the rope strained behind me 	the town had gone
Pulling-mad in our house 	far away in a field of sand they struggled
They had turned their backs on the sea 	bent double 	some on their knees
The rope over their shoulders like a bag of gold 	they strove for the ideal
Esso station across the scorched meadow 	with the distant fish coming up
The front stairs 	the sagging boards 	still coming in 	up 	taking
Another step 	toward the empty house 	where the rope stood straining
By itself through the rooms 	in the middle of the air. 	"Pass the word,"
Payton said, and I screamed it 	"Let up, good God, let up!" to no one there.
The shark flopped on the porch, grating with salt-sand driving back in
The nails he had pulled out 	coughing chunks of his formless blood.
The screen door banged and tore off 	he scrambled on his tail 	slid
Curved 	did a thing from another world 	and was out of his element and in
Our vacation paradise 	cutting all four legs from under the dinner table
With one deep-water move 	he unwove the rugs in a moment throwing pints
Of blood over everything we owned 	knocked the buckteeth out of my picture
His odd head full of crashed jelly-glass splinters and radio tubes 	thrashing
Among the pages of fan magazines 	all the movie stars drenched in sea-blood
Each time we thought he was dead 	he struggled back and smashed
One more thing 	in all coming back to die 	three or four more times after death.
At last we got him out 	logrolling him 	greasing his sandpaper skin
With lard to slide him 	pulling on his chained lips as the tide came,
Tumbled him down the steps as the first night wave went under the floor.
He drifted off 	head back 	belly white as the moon. What could I do but buy
That house 	for the one black mark still there 	against death 	a forehead-
	toucher in the room he circles beneath and has been invited to wreck?
Blood hard as iron on the wall 	black with time 	still bloodlike
Can be touched whenever the brow is drunk enough. All changes. Memory:
Something like three-dimensional dancing in the limbs 	with age
Feeling more in two worlds than one 	in all worlds the growing encounters.
 
 
 
James Dickey, The Whole Motion: Collected Poems 1945-1992.
My Life had stood - a Loaded Gun (764)
BY EMILY DICKINSON
My Life had stood - a Loaded Gun -
In Corners - till a Day
The Owner passed - identified -
And carried Me away -
And now We roam in Sovreign Woods -
And now We hunt the Doe -
And every time I speak for Him
The Mountains straight reply -
And do I smile, such cordial light
Opon the Valley glow -
It is as a Vesuvian face
Had let it’s pleasure through -
And when at Night - Our good Day done -
I guard My Master’s Head -
’Tis better than the Eider Duck’s
Deep Pillow - to have shared -
To foe of His - I’m deadly foe -
None stir the second time -
On whom I lay a Yellow Eye -
Or an emphatic Thumb -
Though I than He - may longer live
He longer must - than I -
For I have but the power to kill,
Without - the power to die -
There's a certain Slant of light, (320)
BY EMILY DICKINSON
There's a certain Slant of light,
Winter Afternoons –
That oppresses, like the Heft
Of Cathedral Tunes –
Heavenly Hurt, it gives us –
We can find no scar,
But internal difference –
Where the Meanings, are –
None may teach it – Any –
'Tis the seal Despair –
An imperial affliction
Sent us of the Air –
When it comes, the Landscape listens –
Shadows – hold their breath –
When it goes, 'tis like the Distance
On the look of Death –
My Autopsy
BY MICHAEL DICKMAN
There is a way
if we want
into everything
 
I’ll eat the chicken carbonara and you eat the veal, the olives, the small 
	and glowing 
	loaves of bread
 
I’ll eat the waiter, the waitress
floating through the candled dark in shiny black slacks
like water at night
 
The napkins, folded into paper boats, contain invisible Japanese poems
 
You eat the forks,
all the knives, asleep and waiting
on the white tables
 
What do you love?
 
I love the way our teeth stay long after we’re gone, hanging on despite 
	worms or fire
 
I love our stomachs
turning over
the earth
 
*
 
There is a way
if we want
to stay, to leave
 
Both
 
My lungs are made out of smoke ash sunlight air
Particles of skin
 
The invisible floating universe of kisses, rising up in a sequined helix 
	of dust and cinnamon
 
Breathe in
 
Breathe out
 
I smoke
unfiltered Shepheard’s Hotel cigarettes
from a green box, with a dog on the cover, I smoke them
here, and I’ll smoke them
 
there
 

*
 
There is a way
if we want 
out of drowning
 
I’m having 
a Gimlet, a Caruso, a
Fallen Angel
 
A Manhattan, a Rattlesnake, a Rusty Nail, a Stinger, an Angel Face, 
	a Corpse Reviver
 
What are you having?
 
I’m buying 
I’m buying for the house
I’m standing the round
 
Wake me
from the dash of lemon juice,
the half measure of orange juice, apricot brandy,
and the two fingers of gin
that make up paradise
 
*
 
There is a way
if we want
to untie ourselves
 
The shining organs that bind us can help us through the new dark
 
There are lots of stories about intestines
 
People have been forced to hold them, alive and shocked awake
 
The doctors removed M’s smaller one and replaced it, the new bright 
	plastic curled around 
	the older brother
 
Birds drag them out of the dead and abandoned
 
Some people climb them into Heaven
 
Others believe we live in one	God’s intestine!
 
A conveyor belt of stars and saints
 
We tie and we loosen
 
Minor
and forgettable
miracles

All-American Poem
by Matthew Dickman
I want to peel off a hundred-dollar bill
and slap it down on the counter.
You can pick out a dress. I’ll pick out a tie: polka-dots
spinning like disco balls. Darling, let’s go
two-stepping in the sawdust at the Broken Spoke.
Let’s live downtown and go clubbing.
God save hip-hop and famous mixed drinks.
Let’s live in a cardboard box. Let’s live
in a loft above Chelsea, barely human, talking about
the newest collection of Elizabeth Peyton,
her brilliant strokes, the wine and cheese.
You can go from one state to another and never
paint the same thing twice. In New Mexico
we could live by a creek and hang our laundry
on the line. Let’s get naked in the cold waters of Michigan.
Let’s get hitched in Nevada. Just you, me, and Elvis.
We could sell cheese curd in Wisconsin.
I could pay off my bills. You could strip
in some dive on the outskirts of Pittsburgh.
Let’s bite each other on the neck.
Oh, my sexy Transylvania!
We could be relationship counselors
for trannies in South Dakota.
It must be hard to have a woman living
inside you
when you’re watching cows chew
the frozen grass of December.
You are everywhere, sweet Carolinas.
You’re my boss, Tennessee, you honeysuckle.
Give us a kiss, Hawaii. Who says we’re not an empire? Fuck ’em,
they need Jesus. They need the Holy Ghost.
Right, Kansas? Kansas! My yellow brick road of intelligent design. We are not
monkeys. They’re all in prison, right Texas? Texas,
I was with you on the Fourth of July watching the sky undress
with my friends and we were Americans on America Day,
which is every day, coming home from work, drinking a beer
and waiting for the dark,
for the night, the rocket’s red glare, lying around
on a blanket in the backyard, a girl from your hometown
leaning against you, slipping
her slender foot in and out of a saltwater sandal. She’s wearing
cherry lip balm and taking Ecstasy.
Later you can taste it. The smooth wax along her mouth, her arms
stretched out in the grass and each narrow leaf of grass
like a separate lover, the horizon
of a summer tan rising above her low-cut jeans.
She looks different here than she did in her uniform, standing behind
the counter of the Coffee-Go, steaming milk,
rows of flavored syrup above her head: almond, blackberry, mint, vanilla.
This is the Fourth of July
and she looks like the end of summer. She’s a wind
moving through the trees. She’s the best thing
about high school assemblies. We are a country at war
and she’s passing a note to you in class, your book open
to the chapter on dissecting frogs. How to keep the brain intact
when removing it from the small skull. The note says
Why were you holding Clare’s hand after lunch?
We are a country at war but it’s not really happening
here. It is not Clare or her brother or all the bourbon
in Kentucky. On the Fourth of July
I walk out among the fallen
watermelon rinds, the corncobs, paper plates with chicken grease
being pushed by a little breeze
so they look like moons spun out of orbit.
I go inside. I turn the television on.
It’s playing the Civil War again. The Battle of Gettysburg
remembering itself on the football field
at Lincoln Memorial High. A rush of gray uniforms
poised on the scrimmage line. The poor sons of Alabama
wearing the uniforms of dead soldiers.
The North marching down
toward cotton revenue and Big Tobacco. The South starving,
fighting, often without shoes, the narrator explaining
how the muskets were loaded, fired, and then reloaded.
That’s a lot of time
to think about the person you’re killing.
That’s a lot of time to wish you were home.
Unless, of course, you were home
and your house was burning down. Out of the smoke
there’s always more smoke. There’s always the hacking apart and crying.
You can go from one Civil War to another
and still not be free. The man in charge of the antique cannon
has lit his shirt on fire. The man in charge
of the horse runs Ray’s Hardware on Tenth and Main.
He’s having a liquidation sale this weekend.
The show is over
in an hour. That includes commercials
and the slow I-won’t-kill-you pace
of the reenactment. This is how it happened,
the narrator is saying,
while his producer plays a Negro spiritual. It makes you weep.
The vocalist calling out to God. Oh Lord! Oh Lord my God, she’s singing,
have pity on our souls. You can go from one state
to another and pity will meet you at the Greyhound Station.
In the stands of the Lincoln Memorial football field
a little boy is eating cotton candy while the dead men rise up
from the twenty-yard line and walk toward their families. I love
the History Channel. It’s so foreign. The old reels of Germany
having the fascism bombed out of it. Kennedy waving
from the black sedan. It’s almost real. Boston grieving. Pulling its hair out.
You can take the Chinatown bus from Boston
to the Chinatown in New York City. You can go
from one shop window
with peeled ducks hanging by their ankles
to another shop window
with peeled ducks hanging by their ankles.
In Oregon you can go from one hundred-year-old evergreen
to another hundred-year-old evergreen and never turn around.
They’re everywhere, cut down
and loaded up, like paperbacks in bookstores.
My favorite bookstore is in Evanston, Illinois.
The owner is Polish and his daughter wore a wool skirt
that kept sliding up her legs
as she sat on the edge of his desk. God bless her
for it was cold outside and I was almost alone
but for my copy of The Idiot I carried with me everywhere.
You can go from one Russian novel to another
Russian novel and never have
borsht. You can go from one daughter to another
and eventually end up with your own. You can go from one
founding father to another and still have the same
America. The same Alaska. The same Baked Alaska
served on a silver plate in the same hotel
where the waitstaff are all South American.
The same cows sleeping in the same Wyoming with the same kids
getting drunk, shooting cans, peeing on the electric fence.
The same Main Street with the same True Value. The same
flags staggered between the streetlights
like marathon runners. I walked down that street in Tacoma, Washington,
with Jennifer when Jennifer had red hair and listened
to Broadway musicals. We smoked
cigarettes in the town square
below a statue of one soldier carrying another. The plaque
read Brothers in Arms. One soldier carrying another
in his arms. We were young and mean
and thought it was funny. You can go from one town square
to another and never fall in love.
Even in New Hampshire where people Live Free or Die.
What kind of life is that
when you’re on the road and the woman
next to you is hardly there, hardly speaking, her feet
on the dashboard like two very different promises.
How are you supposed to drive
under these conditions? Forget about the rain. Forget
about Vermont and the Green Mountain’s majesty.
Forget Ted Nugent. Forget Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers.
Forget the swimming pools in California
because if she doesn’t love you
what chance have you got with LA?
In LA you don’t get to be lonely.
You get skin peels and mud masks.
You can go from one spa to another 
and watch the same lemon slices of cucumber
pressed against the eyes of thirteen-year-old girls and seventy-year-old
women. You won’t see that in Minnesota.
Minnesota! Cover me up in a wool blanket
and put me to bed. Let me sleep.
Let me have the dream again
where Kenneth Koch walks through my mother’s house
looking for a leash. He’s taking my dog for a walk. The dog
is scratching at the front door and Kenneth is saying yes, yes, I’m coming.
You can hear him telling the dog that one broken heart
deserves a heart that has been differently broken.
I had that dream in New York City. Times Square
looks like America throwing up on itself.
I want to hold its hair back. I want to sit in the park
where my brother and I drank coffee and ate donuts from Dean & DeLuca.
We watched a man fly a little wooden airplane over the green benches.
We ate lunch at the Cedar Tavern.
The French fries I ordered were covered in pepper
like the poem Frank O’Hara wrote to Mayakovski, saying
I love you. I love you, but I’m turning to my verses
and my heart is closing
like a fist. The burger was bloody in the middle as if it wasn’t through living.
My first girlfriend refused to eat meat.
She said she wouldn’t be a tomb for another living creature.
But she privately cut herself on the arms
which confused both her parents.
Senior year she moved to Idaho. I miss her, my sweet potato.
You can go from one state to another
and still hate yourself. Hide in your room listening to The Cure, carving
little commas in your skin. You can go
to Arizona State and never leave your past behind. Arizona waiting
with open arms for the new blood. The great white hope
of tailgate parties and college football. Put me in, coach, I’m ready to play!
I’m ready for the lobster rolls of Maine
and the coeds of Maryland. In Maryland
I played miniature golf with a waitress from Denny’s.
I spent the winter sitting in her section, drinking Pepsi,
watching her hips hydroplane inside a green polyester skirt.
It was the year my Uncle Joe died. He was a G.I.
He was a G.I. Joe. A man who hid under the table
if a car backfired. He refused to eat rice.
He came back from Normandy
wanting ice cream. He had a friend from Arkansas
who ended up all over his uniform. An ear burned
into the helmet. He had a friend from Colorado
who got his hands cut off, slow, and forever. His pal
from New Jersey was thrown into the sky
like a human constellation of broken teeth. You can go
from one state to another and still feel pretty good about enlisting.
Joe lived in a trance. Love saved him.
He would scratch his wife’s name over and over into the tough leather
of his boots. Hidden below the view-line
of a foxhole, his knife drawn, the word Alice, written like a child
writes on the chalkboard. Alice, Alice,
like an antidote to death. Joe died in a hospital.
You can go from one pool of blood
to another and never see your own reflection.
Oh, Mississippi, I worry about your boys.
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, are you half empty?
Washington, DC, the sons of senators
are sleeping between flannel sheets.
Darling, let’s go to Florida and sit
in the shade of an orange grove shack.
Let’s meet some Cubans and Jews. The world is so big.
Why stay up all night and only have ourselves to keep warm?
I’ve never been to West Virginia. What the hell
are West Virginians doing this weekend? Or Iowans? In Iowa
there’s a new Wal-Mart opening and I’m gonna shed some dimes.
We’ll take a bus there. A bus is a diplomat.
It throws us all together, our books,
hats, and umbrellas. I am never more human
than when I’m riding next to someone
who makes me shudder. If my body
touches his body who knows what will happen? Race issues
and cooties. The great unknown
coming home from work. You can go from one state to another
and still not know how to act. We are losing ourselves. We are somewhere
in Delaware. You are my Georgia peach. Your love
is like a field of buffalo when we still had buffalo and they looked like dark
rolling hills deep in North Dakota. America,
I’m in love with your imports and exports,
your embargoes and summits!
Let’s walk down to the river. Let’s bless the paper
boats and turn the whole thing into wine. We can sit quietly on a blanket,
watching the transcendentalists come and go, talking
of Henry David Thoreau. Take me to the river,
Ohio, put me in the water.
Missouri goes down to the river and drinks Vanilla Cokes.
Rhode Island goes down and prays for money.
Connecticut goes down and washes its clothes on the sandy bank.
We go down to the river and the moon
pulls up in its silver Cadillac.
America, let’s put our feet in the water! Let’s tie a rock
around our waist and jump in.
The moon is revving up. The river
is rolling by. Tom Petty is singing about a girl from Indiana
and I am buying you another drink. I am trying to take you home.
Bridge
BY MATTHEW DICKMAN 
Before ever getting to the bridge, at the corner
near the park, two young girls
walk by eating burgers, a mouthful
falls from one of their mouths
and she looks at me, still walking, and says
watchoutyougonnastepinsomefoodyoufuckingfaggitharharhar—
I don’t know anyone
who would sleep with them, who would
pull their jeans down and lift
their tiny hairs with the tip of his
tongue. Who would want their ass
in his face or the smell of ketchup and pickles slipping into his
mouth. And I can’t imagine them
walking over the Hawthorne Bridge, the river
all dark and lit up
like a hero in a vampire novel, can’t imagine them
so sad, so torn apart, knowing themselves
enough, that they would
lift their heavy bodies over the rail, one
of their fake jeweled sandals
falling onto the walkway,
and fall into the water below, and breathe in, and turn down, and be
gone. When I stop and look over
I think I’m nervous because I’m worried
I’ll lose my glasses, the black
frames slipping off, all the gravity
making them jump, pushing down on them
like a hand on the back
of my neck, what I see: the food falling,
the dumb thumping of the girls
walking, the trees inhaling all night,
the houseboats blinking, all of it happening
on the other side of the lenses. My favorite bridge. My favorite part
of the walk home. This choice
I think I have. In a Christmas movie I like,
a man is standing
on the ledge, looking down into the water, thinking
about it, getting himself ready,
giving people time to talk him back
to earth. Time for an angel in a gray overcoat
and a face from the 1950s to stop him. When I lean over
I can feel the cars racing east behind me, no one
pulls the emergency
brake, no one leans on the horn.
Maybe the girls are passing
in a friend’s car, being eaten
up by burgers and flavored lipstick,
the two songs of death
that their bodies are, and maybe
one of them waves, or it looks like she’s waving
when she flicks a cigarette, like this, out the window and it falls
and keeps falling.
Byron Loves Me 
BY MATTHEW DICKMAN

My dead English professor sits at the foot
of my bed, crying.
What’s the matter? I ask.
Matthew, he says, I will never understand Byron.
My wife is married to another man, my daughter is in love
with pop songs about sex
and money, while Bryon offers nothing
but Seville and oranges. I can’t tell if he loves
me or not. My professor shrugs
like all dead men
shrug, stands up and walks out 
of my room like all men, dead or alive, slowly
with his head bent to the task of leaving. Waking up
in the early morning, half dressed
for a dream about ballroom dancing--my coattails fluttering
in long black strips behind me, top hat
pulled down over my eyes
and half-dressed for breakfast--my pajama bottoms
covered with flickering hotel signs,
I remember that I live alone.
And because I live alone
I take the palm trees far too seriously, depend
far too much on my books
lined up like a third grade class preparing for recess,
all wearing different coats, some 
pushing and pulling at their classmates. If you live
alone with a smile
thin as a paper cut, your dead English professor coming
around every other night in tears,
and empty mailbox and a neighbor
that puts her cigarettes out in your begonia
You should not hang yourself.
Tell the palm tree that you love him. Light a candle 
and offer yourself up to the books.
Haven’t they saved your life once before? Reading
Allen Ginsberg the day your friend cut himself open
in the backseat of his car,
the engine running while his mother
was getting high off a plastic bag
of paint thinner, a bluish ring around her mouth.
You could have been in that car. You could have
been like her
but you sat on the floorand pulled Lucille Clifton
off the shelf instead.
As if that were not enough 
to make you shiver
while the angel of fate passed over you, somewhere
in New Jersey
you have Bruce Springsteen
writing songs about you and wondering how you are.
My Dead Friends Come Back
BY MICHAEL DICKMAN
If you want to
come back, just you
I say it's fine
From the flattened universe
From His side
of the bed
Shave my head and put me in the ground with you surrounded by
 trillium
Trillium or
something else
Shit and violets
*
If you want to
come back, just you
I say it's fine
From endless singing
From the icy branches
of evergreens
I want to trade you sunlight for starlight, or star for star, the night sky
 disappearing for
 coffee in the morning
What I want
I want to fuck you again
on the living-room
floor
*
If you want to
come back, just you
I say it's fine
From your hijacked brain
From your skeleton
sparkling like change
on a countertop
Your life as light is just beginning in the cosmos, but you can come
 back if you want to
What a terrible place this is
Limping around
not in each other's arms
not like light
at all
I Might Have Dreamed This
BY KIRSTEN DIERKING
For a short time after the rape, I found I could  move things. Energy birds swarmed from my brain.  With a witch’s sense of abandoned physics,  I set dolls rolling. Back and forth. Like a  breathing sound.  Using only my night-powered eyes, I pushed the lamp  to the dresser’s edge. I buried the mirrors  in avalanches of freshly laundered underpants.  I never slept.  I did all these things lying down.
School photo, found after the Joplin tornado
BY LAURA DIMMIT
 “Joey, 4th grade, 1992”
He’s been on the fridge since it happened,
sneaking glances from underneath the cat
magnet at our dinners, coffee habits, arguments.
We posted him on the database of items found,
hoping that someone would recognize his messy
hair, Batman t-shirt, blue eyes, but no one
answered the post or claimed him.
Somewhere a childhood photo album is not
quite complete, or a grandmother’s mantelpiece;
an uncle’s wallet. One afternoon I got restless,
flipped through my old yearbooks, trying to find him,
looking to see how he might have aged: did he lose
the chubby cheeks? dye his hair? how long
did he have to wear braces? But he’s too young
to have passed me in the halls, the picture just
a stranger, a small reminder of the whirling aftermath
when Joplin was clutching at scraps: everything displaced,
even this poor kid who doesn’t even know he’s lost.
She Put on Her Lipstick in the Dark
BY STUART DISCHELL
I really did meet a blind girl in Paris once. 
It was in the garden of a museum, 
Where I saw her touching the statues. 
She had brown hair and an aquamarine scarf.
It was in the garden of the museum. 
I told her I was a thief disguised as a guard. 
She had brown hair and an aquamarine scarf. 
She told me she was a student from Grenoble.
I told her I was not a thief disguised as a guard. 
We had coffee at the little commissary. 
She said she had time till her train to Grenoble. 
We talked about our supreme belief in art.
We had coffee at the little commissary, 
Then sat on a bench near the foundry. 
We talked about our supreme belief in art. 
She leaned her head upon my chest.
We kissed on a bench near the foundry. 
I closed my eyes when no one was watching. 
She leaned her head upon my chest. 
The museum was closing. It was time to part.
I really did meet a blind girl in Paris once. 
I never saw her again and she never saw me. 
In a garden she touched the statues. 
She put on her lipstick in the dark.
I close my eyes when no one is watching. 
She had brown hair and an aquamarine scarf. 
The museum was closing. It was time to part. 
I never saw her again and she never saw me.
Almost Blue
BY MARK DOTY
Chet Baker, 1929-1988
If Hart Crane played trumpet
he’d sound like you, your horn’s dark city
miraculous and broken over and over,
scale-shimmered, every harbor-flung hour
and salt-span of cabled longing,
every waterfront, the night-lovers’ rendezvous.
This is the entrance
to the city of you, sleep’s hellgate,
and two weeks before the casual relinquishment
of your hold — light needling
on the canal’s gleaming haze
and the buds blaring like horns –
two weeks before the end, Chet,
and you’re playing like anything,
singing stay little valentine
stay
and taking so long there are worlds sinking
between the notes, this exhalation
no longer a voice but a rush of air,
brutal, from the tunnels under the river,
the barges’ late whistles you only hear
when the traffic’s stilled
by snow, a city hushed and
distilled into one rush of breath,
yours, into the microphone
and the ear of that girl
in the leopard-print scarf,
one long kiss begun on the highway
and carried on dangerously,
the Thunderbird veering
on the coast road: glamor
of a perfectly splayed fender,
dazzling lipstick, a little pearl of junk,
some stretch of road breathless
and traveled into … Whoever she is
she’s the other coast of you,
and just beyond the bridge into the city’s
long amalgam of ardor and indifference
is lit like a votive
then blown out. Too many rooms unrented
in this residential hotel,
and you don’t want to know
why they’re making that noise in the hall;
you’re going to wake up in any one of the
how many ten thousand
locations of trouble and longing
going out of business forever everything must go
wake up and start wanting.
It’s so much better when you don’t want:
nothing falls then, nothing lost
but sleep and who wanted that
in the pearl this suspended world is,
in the warm suspension and glaze
of this song everything stays up
almost forever in the long
glide sung into the vein,
one note held almost impossibly
almost blue and the lyric takes so long
to open, a little blood
blooming: there’s no love song finer
but how strange the change
from major to minor
every time
we say goodbye
and you leaning into that warm
haze from the window, Amsterdam,
late afternoon glimmer
a blur of buds
breathing in the lindens
and you let go and why not
At the Gym 
by Mark Doty
This salt-stain spot
marks the place where men
lay down their heads,
back to the bench,
and hoist nothing
that need be lifted
but some burden they've chosen
this time: more reps,
more weight, the upward shove
of it leaving, collectively,
this sign of where we've been:
shroud-stain, negative
flashed onto the vinyl
where we push something
unyielding skyward,
gaining some power
at least over flesh,
which goads with desire,
and terrifies with frailty.
Who could say who's
added his heat to the nimbus
of our intent, here where
we make ourselves:
something difficult
lifted, pressed or curled,
Power over beauty,
power over power!
Though there's something more
tender, beneath our vanity,
our will to become objects
of desire: we sweat the mark
of our presence onto the cloth.
Here is some halo
the living made together.
Canary
BY RITA DOVE
for Michael S. Harper
Billie Holiday’s burned voice
had as many shadows as lights,
a mournful candelabra against a sleek piano,
the gardenia her signature under that ruined face.
(Now you’re cooking, drummer to bass, 
magic spoon, magic needle.
Take all day if you have to
with your mirror and your bracelet of song.)
Fact is, the invention of women under siege 
has been to sharpen love in the service of myth.
If you can’t be free, be a mystery.
LADY FREEDOM AMONG US
BY RITA DOVE
Don't lower your eyes
or stare straight ahead to where
you think you ought to be going
don't mutter oh no
not another one
get a job fly a kite
go bury a bone
with her oldfashioned sandals
with her leaden skirts
with her stained cheeks and whiskers and
heaped up trinkets
she has risen among us in blunt reproach
she has fitted her hair under a hand-me-down cap
and spruced it up with feathers and stars
slung over her shoulder she bears
the rainbowed layers of charity and murmurs
all of you even the least of you
don't cross to the other side of the square
don't think another item to fit on a
tourist's agenda
consider her drenched gaze her shining brow
she who has brought mercy back into the streets
and will not retire politely to the potter's field
having assumed the thick skin of this town
its gritted exhaust its sunscorch and blear
she rests in her weathered plumage
bigboned resolute
don't think you can ever forget her
don't even try
she's not going to budge
no choice but to grant her space
crown her with sky
for she is one of the many
and she is each of us 
Ludwig Van Beethoven’s Return to Vienna
BY RITA DOVE
Oh you men who think or say that I am malevolent, stubborn,  or misanthropic, how greatly do you wrong me.... 	The Heiligenstadt Testament  Three miles from my adopted city  lies a village where I came to peace. The world there was a calm place,  even the great Danube no more  than a pale ribbon tossed onto the landscape by a girl’s careless hand.Into this stillness   I had been ordered to recover. The hills were gold with late summer; my rooms were two, plus a small kitchen,  situated upstairs in the back of a cottage  at the end of the Herrengasse. From my window I could see onto the courtyard  where a linden tree twined skyward —  leafy umbilicus canted toward light,  warped in the very act of yearning — and I would feed on the sun as if that alone  would dismantle the silence around me.  At first I raged.Then music raged in me,	  rising so swiftly I could not write quickly enough  to ease the roiling.I would stop  to light a lamp, and whatever I’d missed —  larks flying to nest, church bells, the shepherd’s  home-toward-evening song — rushed in, and I would rage again.  I am by nature a conflagration;  I would rather leap  than sit and be looked at. So when my proud city spread her gypsy skirts, I reentered, burning towards her greater, constant light. 	 Call me rough, ill-tempered, slovenly— I tell you,  every tenderness I have ever known  has been nothing  but thwarted violence, an ache  so permanent and deep, the lightest touch  awakens it. . . . It is impossible   to care enough.I have returned  with a second Symphony  and 15 Piano Variations which I’ve named Prometheus, after the rogue Titan, the half-a-god  who knew the worst sin is to take  what cannot be given back.  I smile and bow, and the world is loud. And though I dare not lean in to shout  Can’t you see that I’m deaf? — I also cannot stop listening.
A Week After Your Death
BY ROBERT BLY
I dreamt last night you Lived nearby, not Dead at all, but safe In a blacksmith’s storage room, With bolts and nails and bins From floor to ceiling.
You came and brought me An ivory jar, Holding a precious fluid, Which I took.  I knew it meant The time had come, But I let you leave.
Later a man pushed open The door and threw Your body down, a wizened, Astonishingly small body – Rope still tied Around the neck.
I woke and cried to my wife: “He didn’t die That way!  There was no rope! All that is wrong!”  She Said, “In Your dream he did.”






Dream Barker
BY JEAN VALENTINE
We met for supper in your flat-bottomed boat. 
I got there first: in a white dress: I remember
Wondering if you'd come. Then you shot over the bank, 
A Virgilian Nigger Jim, and poled us off
To a little sea-food barker's cave you knew.
What'll you have? you said. Eels hung down, 
Bamboozled claws hung up from the crackling weeds. 
The light was all behind us. To one side
In a dish of ice was a shell shaped like a sand-dollar
But worked with Byzantine blue and gold. What's that?
Well, I've never seen it before, you said, 
And I don't know how it tastes.
Oh well, said I, if it's bad,
I'm not too hungry, are you? We'd have the shell...
I know just how you feel, you said.
And asked for it; we held out our hands. 
Six Dollars! barked the barker, For This Beauty!
We fell down laughing in your flat-bottomed boat, .
And then I woke up: in a white dress: 
Dry as a bone on dry land, Jim, 
Bone dry, old, in a dry land, Jim, my Jim. . .





Bone-Flower Elegy 

BY ROBERT HAYDEN
In the dream I enter the house
      wander vast rooms that are
         catacombs midnight subway
         	cavernous ruined movie-palace
         where presences in vulture masks
            play scenes of erotic violence
         	  on a scaffold stage   I want
         to stay and watch but know somehow
I must not linger and come to the funeral
           chamber   in its icy nonlight see
               a naked corpse
         	     turning with sensual movements
         	        on its coffin-bed
            I have wept for you many times
            I whisper but shrink from the arms
         	       That would embrace me
                        And treading water reach
            arched portals opening on a desert
groves of enormous nameless flowers
            twist up from firegold sand
       skull flowers flowers of sawtooth bone
           their leaves and petals interlock
         	      caging me for you beastangel
         	          raging toward me
         	 angelbeast shining come
                     	to rend me and redeem



The Dream
BY LOUISE BOGAN
O God, in the dream the terrible horse began To paw at the air, and make for me with his blows, Fear kept for thirty-five years poured through his mane, And retribution equally old, or nearly, breathed through his nose.   Coward complete, I lay and wept on the ground When some strong creature appeared, and leapt for the rein. Another woman, as I lay half in a swound Leapt in the air, and clutched at the leather and chain.   Give him, she said, something of yours as a charm. Throw him, she said, some poor thing you alone claim. No, no, I cried, he hates me; he is out for harm, And whether I yield or not, it is all the same.   But, like a lion in a legend, when I flung the glove Pulled from my sweating, my cold right hand; The terrible beast, that no one may understand, Came to my side, and put down his head in love.







Riverlight
BY FRANK STANFORD

My father and I lie down together.
He is dead.
We look up at the stars, the steady sound
Of the wind turning the night like a ceiling fan.
This is our home.
I remember the work in him
Like bitterness in persimmons before a frost.
And I imagine the way he had fear,
The ground turning dark in a rain.
Now he gets up.
And I dream he looks down in my eyes
And watches me die.









by Yehuda Amichai



Last Night I Dreamt I Was a DJ
BY FRANK BÁEZ
 
I call Miguel on the phone and ask him
if he thinks I would be better off as a DJ or as a poet
and Miguel answers as a Poet.
My girlfriend also says Poet.
My girlfriend’s brother says Poet
and the chick I met when she was in line behind me at the movie
says DJ.
 
Girls tend to see more as a DJ
while the women shopping at the supermarkets
say that I should stick with the poems.
 
My mother says Poet.
The plumber says Poet.
The five poets I know all say
I’d be better off as a DJ.
My sister abstained from voting.
 
I went to see DJ Tiesto
and a gringa grabbed my hands
and said that DJs are creatures of God.
They’re angels, she said and while she was talking
I imagined all the DJs with their turntables
flying around God like mosquitoes
and God shooing them away
with his hand.
 
But the question is whether the poets and the DJs
can be reconciled;
if they can be One,
if it’s possible to write poems with one hand
and with the other scratch records,
if it’s possible to be half-poet, half-DJ,
to be a poet above the waist
and below the waist a DJ
or vice versa
or maybe, during a full moon, a poet
could transform into a DJ
or maybe I’m complicating everything
and the fact is every DJ wants to be a poet
and every poet wants to be a DJ.
 
There’s a legend in which a DJ and a poet
fall into a well.
they shout and shout until
a man appears and throws down
a rope. The DJ climbs up first but when
they throw the rope back to the poet he screams, “Leave me down here”,
and the man and the DJ do so. They wait in silence
for a little while, and then they leave.











Byron Loves Me 
BY MATTHEW DICKMAN

My dead English professor sits at the foot
of my bed, crying.
What’s the matter? I ask.
Matthew, he says, I will never understand Byron.
My wife is married to another man, my daughter is in love
with pop songs about sex
and money, while Bryon offers nothing
but Seville and oranges. I can’t tell if he loves
me or not. My professor shrugs
like all dead men
shrug, stands up and walks out 
of my room like all men, dead or alive, slowly
with his head bent to the task of leaving. Waking up
in the early morning, half dressed
for a dream about ballroom dancing--my coattails fluttering
in long black strips behind me, top hat
pulled down over my eyes
and half-dressed for breakfast--my pajama bottoms
covered with flickering hotel signs,
I remember that I live alone.
And because I live alone
I take the palm trees far too seriously, depend
far too much on my books
lined up like a third grade class preparing for recess,
all wearing different coats, some 
pushing and pulling at their classmates. If you live
alone with a smile
thin as a paper cut, your dead English professor coming
around every other night in tears,
and empty mailbox and a neighbor
that puts her cigarettes out in your begonia
You should not hang yourself.
Tell the palm tree that you love him. Light a candle 
and offer yourself up to the books.
Haven’t they saved your life once before? Reading
Allen Ginsberg the day your friend cut himself open
in the backseat of his car,
the engine running while his mother
was getting high off a plastic bag
of paint thinner, a bluish ring around her mouth.
You could have been in that car. You could have
been like her
but you sat on the floorand pulled Lucille Clifton
off the shelf instead.
As if that were not enough 
to make you shiver
while the angel of fate passed over you, somewhere
in New Jersey
you have Bruce Springsteen
writing songs about you and wondering how you are.

Please Marry Me
BY CHARLES BAXTER
Please marry me. Your mother likes me.
 —Line spoken by an unknown woman, in a dream
We are stretched out on a dingy sofa, and I think
I must be barefoot because a woman whom no one knows
Is massaging the ankle of one leg of mine and the instep
Of the other, all this toward morning, and I have that
Occasional epiphany one has while still asleep
That I am floating down a river
Because I am so happy and all the dismal issues
Have been made tractable at last, and so I say to her
That the late symphonies of Gustav Mahler
Are more lucid if you’re sitting close to, and above,
The orchestra, so that you can see the contrapuntal
Lines moving from strings to woodwinds
And then back again, whereupon this woman,
Sitting (I now realize) at my feet, says, in the full
Heat of our dream life, and in that happiness,
“Please marry me. Your mother likes me,”
And so I wake, not laughing, although my mother
Has been dead for over thirty years, but in wonderment
Over what quality this dream-woman must have owned
To have pleased my mother so that she,
My late mother, would have said, despite her ban
On ordinary pleasantries, that she had liked someone,
Anyone, who might have cared for me, and as I lie
In bed I think of the last movement of Mahler’s Ninth
When the melodic lines go quiet for minute after minute
In a prolonged farewell to music and to life,
Which my mother would attend to in her bathrobe
Late at night, the stereo turned up, blended whiskey
In her highball glass mixed with milk as a disguise,
Leaning back, hand over eyes, silent-movie style
Like Norma Desmond listening as Von Stroheim plays
The organ wearing his white gloves. No, it wasn’t
Mahler, it was Schoenberg, Verklärte Nacht,
Moon-drunk music, mad and inconsolable.

The Dream of a Lacquer Box
BY KIMIKO HAHN
 
I wish I knew the contents and I wish the contents
Japanese —
like hairpins made of tortoiseshell or bone
though my braid was lopped off long ago,
like an overpowering pine incense
or a talisman from a Kyoto shrine,
like a Hello Kitty diary-lock-and-key,
Hello Kitty stickers or candies,
a netsuke in the shape of an octopus,
ticket stubs from the Bunraku —
or am I wishing for Mother? searching for Sister?
just hoping to give something Japanese to my daughters?
then again, people can read anything into dreams
and I do as well. I wish I possessed
my mother’s black lacquer box
though in my dream it was red,
though I wish my heart were content.



Dream of the Huntress
BY ROBIN ROBERTSON
It is always the same:
she is standing over me
in the forest clearing,
a dab of blood on her cheek
from a rabbit or a deer.
I am aware of nothing
but my mutinous flesh,
and the traps of desire
sent to test it—
her bare arms, bare
shoulders, her loosened hair,
the hard, high breasts,
and under a belt
of knives and fish-lures,
her undressed wound.
Every night the same:
the slashed fetlock,
the buckling under;
I wake in her body
broken, like a gun.

Dream Song 29
BY JOHN BERRYMAN
There sat down, once, a thing on Henry’s heart 
só heavy, if he had a hundred years
& more, & weeping, sleepless, in all them time 
Henry could not make good.
Starts again always in Henry’s ears
the little cough somewhere, an odour, a chime.
And there is another thing he has in mind 
like a grave Sienese face a thousand years
would fail to blur the still profiled reproach of. Ghastly, 
with open eyes, he attends, blind.
All the bells say: too late. This is not for tears; 
thinking.
But never did Henry, as he thought he did,
end anyone and hacks her body up
and hide the pieces, where they may be found.
He knows: he went over everyone, & nobody’s missing. 
Often he reckons, in the dawn, them up.
Nobody is ever missing.






Dream in Which I Love a Third Baseman
BY LISA OLSTEIN
At first he seemed a child,
dirt on his lip and the sun
lighting up his hair behind him.
All around us, the hesitation
of year-rounders who know
the warmer air will bring crowds.
No one goes to their therapist
to talk about how happy they are,
but soon I’d be back in the dugout
telling my batting coach how
the view outside my igloo seemed
to be changing, as if the night
sky were all the light there is.
Now, like two babies reaching
through the watery air to touch soft
fingers to soft forehead, like blind fish
sensing a familiar fluttering in the waves,
slowly, by instinct, we became aware.
Off-field, outside the park, beyond
the gates, something was burning. 
The smell was everywhere.


In search of the molecular structure of benzene
BY DIANE SEUSS
i got nothin to eat in this old house/ i gotta go out and catch a mouse/ 
i can't be wrong so i gotta be right/ it's eat or be eaten
– Iggy Pop, “Eat or Be Eaten”
Set the eggs on the stove to boil,
peeled the shells off the eggs, sliced
them in half with a little 
pepper, realized they tasted 
like me. It’s like I caught my own
egg just as it flew out of the fallopian,
like I was eating myself. I read somewhere
that the uterus is the size of a golf ball.
I pictured it as big as the seat of a 1958 
Schwinn Hornet, a pink one, 
and the fallopian tubes as long and glossy 
as chrome handlebars. Snakes eat their own
tails; the alchemists said so. Ouroboros,
they call it. A German chemist
took a despair-nap when he had hit the wall
in his search for the molecular structure
of benzene. He dreamed of a snake
eating its own tail and woke 
to understanding: the structure 
was a closed carbon ring. Benzene
apparently smells like lilacs and occurs
naturally as a result of volcanic eruption. 
You want some benzene, visit a volcano
on the edge of a grove of lilacs. The ovaries
of women who breathe benzene 
shrink. Generally, ovaries are no bigger
than an almond. An almond, and yet they cause
so much trouble. What’s smaller than an almond?
When I was une pucelle I became addicted 
to the egg sacs of fresh water fishes. I lived 
in an ice fishing shack for awhile during the summer,
a sort of rattletrap floating monastery
for a teenage Buddhist nun who liked masturbation
and egg sacs, though not necessarily in that
order. All I had to do to catch a fish was to open
the hatch in the floor and drop in the hook.
Sunfish egg sacs turn the color of sunrise 
when fried in safflower oil. It was egg sacs
and Oreo cookies and eternity, all summer
long. I hadn’t even started bleeding yet. 
I figured out a new way to play Solitaire
but I no longer remember how it’s done.
Somehow the deck of cards consumed itself
and licked its own fingers by midnight. 
Then I put the kerosene down 
on the floorboards and opened
the hatch. I swear I could see stars
down there. I could see myself, my black-green 
seaweed hair. Love wasn’t an issue; I knew
what I wanted and I knew how to get it.
Then, late in the summer, the blue racers
arrived, sunning themselves on my rocks.
I was walking around the pond backwards 
and I stepped into the center of a hot, 
coiled up racer. It tightened
around my ankle and laid its fangs in,
right up to the bone. I knew the thing
didn’t have the poison to kill me, went
chasing after it through the horse fields
which seemed to be covered in blue
racers sunning themselves, all mindless
and happy, and horses staring me down
like churchgoers. The lilacs were fried,
volcanoes dormant. Sun was setting,
the usual orange. I felt sad, impregnated
with sorrow. The shells of dead turtles
floated aimless over the pond. I dove
to the mucky bottom of that body
of water with my eyes wide open. 
It was the same temperature
as I was, a restless 98.6. I was trying
to escape myself but all I knew how to do
was to swim deeper into myself 
and I wasn’t enough for myself anymore.
Ouroboros. I napped down there, dreamed
I opened the carbon ring. Packed my reptile
suitcase, left my skin behind.
















The Song in the Dream
BY SASKIA HAMILTON
The song itself had hinges. The clasp on the eighteenth-century Bible  had hinges, which creaked; when you released the catch,  the book would sigh and expand.  The song was of two wholes joined by hinges,  and I was worried about the joining, the spaces in between  the joints, the weight of each side straining them.





I Might Have Dreamed This
BY KIRSTEN DIERKING
For a short time after the rape, I found I could  move things. Energy birds swarmed from my brain.  With a witch’s sense of abandoned physics,  I set dolls rolling. Back and forth. Like a  breathing sound.  Using only my night-powered eyes, I pushed the lamp  to the dresser’s edge. I buried the mirrors  in avalanches of freshly laundered underpants.  I never slept.  I did all these things lying down.




Imagining Defeat
BY DAVID BERMAN
She woke me up at dawn,
her suitcase like a little brown dog at her heels.
I sat up and looked out the window
at the snow falling in the stand of blackjack trees.
A bus ticket in her hand.
Then she brought something black up to her mouth,
a plum I thought, but it was an asthma inhaler.
I reached under the bed for my menthols
and she asked if I ever thought of cancer.
Yes, I said, but always as a tree way up ahead
in the distance where it doesn't matter
And I suppose a dead soul must look back at that tree,
so far behind his wagon where it also doesn't matter.
except as a memory of rest or water.
Though to believe any of that, I thought,
you have to accept the premise
that she woke me up at all.








Bag of Mice
BY NICK FLYNN
I dreamt your suicide note
was scrawled in pencil on a brown paperbag,
& in the bag were six baby mice. The bag
opened into darkness,
smoldering
from the top down. The mice,
huddled at the bottom, scurried the bag
across a shorn field. I stood over it
& as the burning reached each carbon letter
of what you'd written
your voice released into the night
like a song, & the mice
grew wilder.
The Instruction Manual
BY JOHN ASHBERY
As I sit looking out of a window of the building
I wish I did not have to write the instruction manual on the uses of a new metal.
I look down into the street and see people, each walking with an inner peace, 
And envy them—they are so far away from me!
Not one of them has to worry about getting out this manual on schedule. 
And, as my way is, I begin to dream, resting my elbows on the desk and leaning out of the window a little,
Of dim Guadalajara! City of rose-colored flowers!
City I wanted most to see, and most did not see, in Mexico!
But I fancy I see, under the press of having to write the instruction manual, 
Your public square, city, with its elaborate little bandstand!
The band is playing Scheherazade by Rimsky-Korsakov.
Around stand the flower girls, handing out rose- and lemon-colored flowers, 
Each attractive in her rose-and-blue striped dress (Oh! such shades of rose and blue),
And nearby is the little white booth where women in green serve you green and yellow fruit.
The couples are parading; everyone is in a holiday mood.
First, leading the parade, is a dapper fellow
Clothed in deep blue. On his head sits a white hat
And he wears a mustache, which has been trimmed for the occasion.
His dear one, his wife, is young and pretty; her shawl is rose, pink, and white. 
Her slippers are patent leather, in the American fashion,
And she carries a fan, for she is modest, and does not want the crowd to see her face too often.
But everybody is so busy with his wife or loved one
I doubt they would notice the mustachioed man’s wife.
Here come the boys! They are skipping and throwing little things on the sidewalk
Which is made of gray tile. One of them, a little older, has a toothpick in his teeth.
He is silenter than the rest, and affects not to notice the pretty young girls in white.
But his friends notice them, and shout their jeers at the laughing girls. 
Yet soon all this will cease, with the deepening of their years,
And love bring each to the parade grounds for another reason.
But I have lost sight of the young fellow with the toothpick.
Wait—there he is—on the other side of the bandstand,
Secluded from his friends, in earnest talk with a young girl
Of fourteen or fifteen. I try to hear what they are saying
But it seems they are just mumbling something—shy words of love, probably.
She is slightly taller than he, and looks quietly down into his sincere eyes. 
She is wearing white. The breeze ruffles her long fine black hair against her olive cheek.
Obviously she is in love. The boy, the young boy with the toothpick, he is in love too;
His eyes show it. Turning from this couple,
I see there is an intermission in the concert.
The paraders are resting and sipping drinks through straws
(The drinks are dispensed from a large glass crock by a lady in dark blue), 
And the musicians mingle among them, in their creamy white uniforms, and talk
About the weather, perhaps, or how their kids are doing at school.
Let us take this opportunity to tiptoe into one of the side streets. 
Here you may see one of those white houses with green trim 
That are so popular here. Look—I told you!
It is cool and dim inside, but the patio is sunny.
An old woman in gray sits there, fanning herself with a palm leaf fan. 
She welcomes us to her patio, and offers us a cooling drink. 
“My son is in Mexico City,” she says. “He would welcome you too 
If he were here. But his job is with a bank there.
Look, here is a photograph of him.”
And a dark-skinned lad with pearly teeth grins out at us from the worn leather frame.
We thank her for her hospitality, for it is getting late
And we must catch a view of the city, before we leave, from a good high place.
That church tower will do—the faded pink one, there against the fierce blue of the sky. 
Slowly we enter.
The caretaker, an old man dressed in brown and gray, asks us how long we have been in the city, and how we like it here.
His daughter is scrubbing the steps—she nods to us as we pass into the tower.
Soon we have reached the top, and the whole network of the city extends before us.
There is the rich quarter, with its houses of pink and white, and its crumbling, leafy terraces.
There is the poorer quarter, its homes a deep blue.
There is the market, where men are selling hats and swatting flies
And there is the public library, painted several shades of pale green and beige.
Look! There is the square we just came from, with the promenaders. 
There are fewer of them, now that the heat of the day has increased, 
But the young boy and girl still lurk in the shadows of the bandstand. 
And there is the home of the little old lady—
She is still sitting in the patio, fanning herself.
How limited, but how complete withal, has been our experience of Guadalajara!
We have seen young love, married love, and the love of an aged mother for her son.
We have heard the music, tasted the drinks, and looked at colored houses. 
What more is there to do, except stay? And that we cannot do.
And as a last breeze freshens the top of the weathered old tower, I turn my gaze
Back to the instruction manual which has made me dream of Guadalajara.







Love Song: I and Thou
BY ALAN DUGAN
Nothing is plumb, level, or square:
 	the studs are bowed, the joists
are shaky by nature, no piece fits
 	any other piece without a gap
or pinch, and bent nails
 	dance all over the surfacing
like maggots. By Christ
 	I am no carpenter. I built
the roof for myself, the walls
 	for myself, the floors
for myself, and got
 	hung up in it myself. I
danced with a purple thumb
 	at this house-warming, drunk
with my prime whiskey: rage.
 	Oh I spat rage’s nails
into the frame-up of my work:
 	it held. It settled plumb,
level, solid, square and true
 	for that great moment. Then
it screamed and went on through,
 	skewing as wrong the other way.
God damned it. This is hell,
 	but I planned it. I sawed it,
I nailed it, and I
 	will live in it until it kills me.
I can nail my left palm
 	to the left-hand crosspiece but
I can’t do everything myself.
 	I need a hand to nail the right,
a help, a love, a you, a wife.
BY DENISE DUHAMEL
Joseph Cornell, with Box
BY MICHAEL DUMANIS
World harbors much I’d like to fit inside that the parameters preclude me from.  I’m the desire to have had a say. I’m the desire to be left alone  amid brochures for Europe’s best hotels behind a locked door on Utopia Parkway,  where Brother, crippled, rides his chariot, where Mother’s all dressed up and going nowhere.  Together, sotto voce, we count hours, fuss over newsprint, water down the wine.  When I was shorter, we were all divine. When I was shorter, I was infinite  and felt less fear of being understood. I am the fear of being understood.  I am the modest Joe who hems and haws at blond cashiers ensconced in ticket booths.  Lacking the words to offer her the flowers I’d spent a fortnight locating the words  to offer her, I threw the flowers at her. As penance, I entrenched you, Doll, in wood.  Through your shaved bark and twigs, you stared at me. Being a woman was out of the question.  Being a question caused women to wonder. How unrestrained you must feel, Wind and Water.  You are the obligation, Box, to harbor each disarray and ghost. I am the author,  the authored by. I am a plaything of. Who makes who Spectacle. Who gives whom Order.  My father was a man who lived and died. He would commute from Nyack to New York.  The woolen business had its ups and downs. How unrestrained you’ve become, Cage and Coffin.  There is an order to each spectacle. You are the obligation, Wind, to sunder  this relic of. Am reliquary for the off-white light of January morning.  Have seen you, Fairies, in your apricot and chestnut negligees invade the mirror,  tiptoe on marbles, vanish from the scene. Am reliquary for what World has seen.  I’m the ballet of wingspan, the cracked mirror. Canary’s coffin. Sunshine breaking through.
At the Smithville Methodist Church
BY STEPHEN DUNN
It was supposed to be Arts & Crafts for a week, 
but when she came home 
with the "Jesus Saves" button, we knew what art 
was up, what ancient craft.
She liked her little friends. She liked the songs 
they sang when they weren't 
twisting and folding paper into dolls. 
What could be so bad?
Jesus had been a good man, and putting faith 
in good men was what 
we had to do to stay this side of cynicism, 
that other sadness.
OK, we said, One week. But when she came home 
singing "Jesus loves me, 
the Bible tells me so," it was time to talk. 
Could we say Jesus
doesn't love you? Could I tell her the Bible 
is a great book certain people use 
to make you feel bad? We sent her back 
without a word.
It had been so long since we believed, so long 
since we needed Jesus 
as our nemesis and friend, that we thought he was 
sufficiently dead,
that our children would think of him like Lincoln 
or Thomas Jefferson. 
Soon it became clear to us: you can't teach disbelief 
to a child,
only wonderful stories, and we hadn't a story 
nearly as good. 
On parents' night there were the Arts & Crafts 
all spread out
like appetizers. Then we took our seats 
in the church 
and the children sang a song about the Ark, 
and Hallelujah
and one in which they had to jump up and down 
for Jesus. 
I can't remember ever feeling so uncertain 
about what's comic, what's serious.
Evolution is magical but devoid of heroes. 
You can't say to your child 
"Evolution loves you." The story stinks 
of extinction and nothing
exciting happens for centuries. I didn't have 
a wonderful story for my child 
and she was beaming. All the way home in the car 
she sang the songs,
occasionally standing up for Jesus. 
There was nothing to do 
but drive, ride it out, sing along 
in silence.
The Imagined
BY STEPHEN DUNN
If the imagined woman makes the real woman
seem bare-boned, hardly existent, lacking in
gracefulnesss and intellect and pulchritude,
and if you come to realize the imagined woman
can only satisfy your imagination, whereas
the real woman with all her limitations
can often make you feel good, how, in spite
of knowing this, does the imagined woman
keep getting into your bedroom, and joining you
at dinner, why is it that you always bring her along
on vacations when the real woman is shopping,
or figuring the best way to the museum?
And if the real woman
has an imagined man, as she must, someone
probably with her at this very moment, in fact
doing and saying everything she's ever wanted,
would you want to know that he slips in
to her life every day from a secret doorway
she's made for him, that he's present even when
you're eating your omelette at breakfast,
or do you prefer how she goes about the house 
as she does, as if there were just the two of you?
Isn't her silence, finally, loving? And yours
not entirely self-serving? Hasn't the time come,
once again, not to talk about it?

The Routine Things Around the House
BY STEPHEN DUNN
When Mother died
I thought: now I’ll have a death poem.
That was unforgivable
yet I’ve since forgiven myself
as sons are able to do
who’ve been loved by their mothers.
I stared into the coffin
knowing how long she’d live,
how many lifetimes there are
in the sweet revisions of memory.
It’s hard to know exactly
how we ease ourselves back from sadness,
but I remembered when I was twelve,
1951, before the world 
unbuttoned its blouse.
I had asked my mother (I was trembling)
if I could see her breasts
and she took me into her room
without embarrassment or coyness
and I stared at them,
afraid to ask for more.
Now, years later, someone tells me
Cancers who’ve never had mother love
are doomed and I, a Cancer,
feel blessed again. What luck
to have had a mother
who showed me her breasts
when girls my age were developing
their separate countries, 
what luck
she didn’t doom me 
with too much or too little.
Had I asked to touch,
perhaps to suck them, 
what would she have done?
Mother, dead woman
who I think permits me
to love women easily,
this poem
is dedicated to where 
we stopped, to the incompleteness
that was sufficient
and to how you buttoned up,
began doing the routine things
around the house.
- See more at: http://www.poets.org/viewmedia.php/prmMID/19087#sthash.kgrOY7Nw.dpuf
Photo of Miles Davis at Lennies-on-the-Turnpike, 1968
BY CORNELIUS EADY
New York grows 
Slimmer
In his absence. 
I suppose
You could also title this picture 
Of Miles, his leathery
Squint, the grace
In his fingers a sliver of the stuff
You can’t get anymore,
As the rest of us wonder: 
What was the name
Of the driver
Of that truck? And the rest
Of us sigh:
Death is one hell 
Of a pickpocket.
The Supremes
BY CORNELIUS EADY
We were born to be gray. We went to school, 
Sat in rows, ate white bread, 
Looked at the floor a lot. In the back 
Of our small heads 
A long scream. We did what we could, 
And all we could do was 
Turn on each other. How the fat kids suffered! 
Not even being jolly could save them. 
And then there were the anal retentives, 
The terrified brown-noses, the desperately 
Athletic or popular. This, of course, 
Was training. At home 
Our parents shook their heads and waited. 
We learned of the industrial revolution, 
The sectioning of the clock into pie slices. 
We drank cokes and twiddled our thumbs. In the 
Back of our minds 
A long scream. We snapped butts in the showers, 
Froze out shy girls on the dance floor, 
Pin-pointed flaws like radar. 
Slowly we understood: this was to be the world. 
We were born insurance salesmen and secretaries, 
Housewives and short order cooks, 
Stock room boys and repairmen, 
And it wouldn't be a bad life, they promised, 
In a tone of voice that would force some of us 
To reach in self-defense for wigs, 
Lipstick, 
Sequins.
The Academic Sigh
BY RUSSELL EDSON
Some students were stretching a professor on a medieval torture rack. He had offered himself to show them how an academic might be stretched beyond his wildest dreams like a piece of chewing gum. 
 And as they turned the wheel the professor was getting longer and longer. 
 Don’t make me too long, or I’ll look kind of goofy, sighed the professor as he grew longer and longer. 
 Suddenly something snaps. 
 What happened? sighs the professor from the rack. 
 We were just stretching an academic when suddenly something snapped; you may have heard it ... 
 Yes, I was there. Don’t you remember? sighs the professor. 
 And then we heard an academic sigh ... 
 Yes, I heard it, too, sighs the professor, it seemed to come from the rack where I was being stretched beyond my wildest dreams like a piece of chewing gum ...
Bar Napkin Sonnet #11
BY MOIRA EGAN
Things happen when you drink too much mescal.
One night, with not enough food in my belly,
he kept on buying. I’m a girl who’ll fall
damn near in love with gratitude and, well, he
was hot and generous and so the least
that I could do was let him kiss me, hard
and soft and any way you want it, beast
and beauty, lime and salt—sweet Bacchus’ pards—
and when his friend showed up I felt so warm
and generous I let him kiss me too.
His buddy asked me if it was the worm
inside that makes me do the things I do.
I wasn’t sure which worm he meant, the one
I ate? The one that eats at me alone?
Atomic Bride 
BY THOMAS SAYERS ELLIS
for Andre Foxxe
A good show
Starts in the
Dressing room
And works its way
To the stage.
Close the door,
Andre’s cross-
dressing, what
A drag. All
The world loves
A bride, something
About those gowns.
A good wedding
Starts in the
Department store
And works its way
Into the photo album.
Close the door,
Andre’s tying
The know, what
A drag. Isn’t he
Lovely? All 
The world loves
A bachelor, some-
thing about glamour
& glitz, white
Shirts, lawsuits.
A good dog
Starts in the yard
And works its way
Into da house.
Close your eyes,
Andre’s wide open.
One freak of the week
Per night, what
A drag. Isn’t
He lovely? All
The world loves
A nuclear family,
Something about 
A suburban home,
Chaos in order.
A good bride starts
In the laboratory
And works his way
To the church.
Close the door,
Andre’s thinking
Things over, what
A drag. Isn’t
He lovely? All
The world loves
A divorce, something
About broken vows.
A good war starts
In the courtroom
And works its way
To the album cover.
Close the door,
Andre’s swearing in,
What a drag.
Isn’t he lovely? All
The world loves
A star witness,
Something about
Cross-examination.
A good drug starts
In Washington
And works its way
To the dancefloor.
Close the door,
Andre’s strungout,
What a drag,
Isn’t he lovely? All
The world loves
Rhythm guitar,
Something about
Those warm chords.
A good skeleton
Starts in the closet
And works its way
To the top of the charts.
Start the organ.
Andre’s on his way
Down the aisle,
Alone, what an encore. All
The world loves
An explosive ending.
Go ahead Andre,
Toss the bouquet.
Missing Dates
BY WILLIAM EMPSON
Slowly the poison the whole blood stream fills.
It is not the effort nor the failure tires.
The waste remains, the waste remains and kills.
It is not your system or clear sight that mills
Down small to the consequence a life requires; 
Slowly the poison the whole blood stream fills.
They bled an old dog dry yet the exchange rills
Of young dog blood gave but a month's desires.
The waste remains, the waste remains and kills.
It is the Chinese tombs and the slag hills
Usurp the soil, and not the soil retires.
Slowly the poison the whole blood stream fills.
Not to have fire is to be a skin that shrills.
The complete fire is death. From partial fires
The waste remains, the waste remains and kills.
It is the poems you have lost, the ills
From missing dates, at which the heart expires.
Slowly the poison the whole blood stream fills.
The waste remains, the waste remains and kills. 
Cigarettes 
-B.H. Fairchild
Gross, loathsome. Trays and plates loaded
like rain gutters, butts crumpled and damp with gin,
ashes still shedding the rank breath of exhaustion --
nevertheless, an integral part of human evolution,
like reading. Cigarettes possess the nostalgic potency
of old songs: hand on the steering wheel, fat pack
of Pall Malls snug under my sleeve, skinny bicep
pressed against the car door so my muscle bulges,
and my girl, wanting a smoke, touches my arm.
Or 3 a.m. struggling with the Checkov paper, I break
the blue stamp with my thumb, nudge open petals of foil,
and the bloom of nicotine puts me right back in the feedstore
where my grandfather used to trade -- leather, oats, burlap,
and red sawdust. Or at the beach, minute flares floating
in the deep dark, rising, falling in the hands of aunts
and uncles telling the old stories, drowsy with beer,
waves lapping the sand and dragging their voices down.
Consider the poverty of lungs drawing ordinary air,
the unreality of it, the lie it tells about quotidian existence.
Bad news craves cigarettes, whole heaps of them, sucking
in the bad air the way the drowning gulp river water,
though in hospital rooms I've seen grief let smoke
gather slowly into pools that rise, and rise again
to nothing. I've studied the insincere purity
of a mouth without the cigarette that gives the air form,
the hand focus, the lips a sense of identity.
The way Shirley Levin chattered after concerts:
her fingers mimicking piano keys and the cigarette
they held galloping in heart-like fibrillations until
the thrill of it had unravelled in frayed strands of smoke.
1979: Sweet Lorraine, seventh, eighth chorus, and
I'm looking at the small black scallops above the keyboard,
a little history of smoke and jazz, improvisation as
a kind of forgetting. The music of cigarettes:
dawn stirs and lifts and smoke in dove-gray striations
that hang, then break, scatter, and regroup along
the sill where paperbacks warp in sunlight and the cat
claws housespiders. Cigarettes are the only way
to make bleakness nutritional, or at least useful,
something to do while feeling terrified. They cling
to the despair of certain domestic scenes -- my father,
for instance, smoking L & M's all night in the kitchen,
a sea of smoke risen to neck-level as I wander in
like some small craft drifting and lost in fog
while a distant lighthouse flares awhile and swings away.
Yes, they kill you, but so do television and bureacrats
and the drugged tedium of certain room spiped
with tasteful music where we have all sat waiting
for someone to enter with a silver plate laden
with Camels and Lucky Strikes, someone who leans
into our ears and tells us that the day's work is done,
and done well, offers us black coffee in white cups,
and whispers the way trees whisper, yes, yes, oh yes.
100 Bells
BY TARFIA FAIZULLAH
With thanks to Vievee Francis
My sister died. He raped me. They beat me. I fell
to the floor. I didn’t. I knew children,
their smallness. Her corpse. My fingernails.
The softness of my belly, how it could
double over. It was puckered, like children,
ugly when they cry. My sister died
and was revived. Her brain burst
into blood. Father was driving. He fell
asleep. They beat me. I didn’t flinch. I did.
It was the only dance I knew.
It was the kathak. My ankles sang
with 100 bells. The stranger
raped me on the fitted sheet.
I didn’t scream. I did not know
better. I knew better. I did not
live. My father said, I will go to jail
tonight because I will kill you. I said,
She died. It was the kathakali. Only men
were allowed to dance it. I threw
a chair at my mother. I ran from her.
The kitchen. The flyswatter was
a whip. The flyswatter was a flyswatter.
I was thrown into a fire ant bed. I wanted to be
a man. It was summer in Texas and dry.
I burned. It was a snake dance.
He said, Now I’ve seen a Muslim girl
naked. I held him to my chest. I held her
because I didn’t know it would be
the last time. I threw no
punches. I threw a glass box into a wall.
Somebody is always singing. Songs
were not allowed. Mother said,
Dance and the bells will sing with you.
I slithered. Glass beneath my feet. I
locked the door. I did not
die. I shaved my head. Until the horns
I knew were there were visible.
Until the doorknob went silent.
A Ride in the Rain
BY BLAS FALCONER
The driver has no knife. He has no knife, no,
you think, and lower your head into his car.
A ride in the rain? The dark clouds bellow.
You saw him drinking at the local bar,
you think, and lower your head into his car.
Rain taps on the roof, falls on this familiar man:
You saw him drinking at the local bar.
He shrugs and offers up his empty hands.
Rain taps on the roof, falls on this familiar man,
and sugarcane stalks bend in the breeze.
He shrugs and offers up his empty hands.
As sewer pipes burst, flooding the street,
and sugarcane stalks bend in the breeze,
machetes swing into the green stems, low.
As sewer pipes burst, flooding the street,
bile is a blade at the back of your throat.
Machetes swing into the green stems, low.
A ride in the rain? The dark clouds bellow.
Bile is blade at the back of your throat.
The driver has no knife. He has no knife, no.

X Minus X
BY KENNETH FEARING
Even when your friend, the radio, is still; even when her dream, the magazine, is finished; even when his life, the ticker, is silent; even when their destiny, the boulevard, is bare;
And after that paradise, the dance-hall, is closed; after that theater, the clinic, is dark,
Still there will be your desire, and hers, and his hopes and theirs,
Your laughter, their laughter,
Your curse and his curse, her reward and their reward, their dismay and his dismay and her dismay and yours—
Even when your enemy, the collector, is dead; even when your counsellor, the salesman, is sleeping; even when your sweetheart, the movie queen, has spoken; even when your friend, the magnate, is gone.
Sometime During Eternity . . .
BY LAWRENCE FERLINGHETTI
Sometime during eternity
 	some guys show up 
and one of them
	who shows up real late
 	is a kind of carpenter 
from some square-type place
	like Galilee
	and he starts wailing
and claiming he is hip
to who made heaven
 and earth
and that the cat
 	who really laid it on us
 	is his Dad
	And moreover
 	he adds
 	It’s all writ down
	on some scroll-type parchments 
	which some henchmen
leave lying around the Dead Sea somewheres 
	a long time ago
 and which you won’t even find 
 for a coupla thousand years or so
 	or at least for
nineteen hundred and fortyseven
of them
	to be exact
 and even then
 nobody really believes them
 or me
for that matter
	You’re hot
 	they tell him
	And they cool him
	They stretch him on the Tree to cool
 	And everybody after that
 is always making models 
of this Tree
	with Him hung up 
	and always crooning His name
 	and calling Him to come down 
 and sit in
 	on their combo
 as if he is the king cat
who’s got to blow 
	or they can’t quite make it
	Only he don’t come down
 from His Tree
	Him just hang there
 on His Tree
	looking real Petered out
and real cool
 	and also
 	according to a roundup
	of late world news 
 	from the usual unreliable sources
 real dead
The Coin of Your Country
BY MONICA FERRELL
When I take my scissors to your shirts,
I am frightened: not that they will whimper
But that they won’t understand the violence I mean.
That kind of violence is the other side of love,
Bright as a light-saber and permanent
As the angel’s swords above Eden
Barring that couple with a final X,
That violence means a love strong as death.
Once Sie ist mein leben, you said, meaning me
And I took those words personally
And knocked upon the door of my heart
Until all its birds flooded to you, in a rush—
Like the Iroquois, I tugged on our peace-pipe,
I wrote your name in smoke. Then went home
With my pockets rolling in shining glass beads,
My pockets so rich with the coin of your country.
But This Is Ambiguous
BY SANDY FLORIAN
But this is ambiguous and so I will clarify. Last night I dreamt of a lake on fire. A lovely woman tapered off into a fish. I wore an owl mask with the desire to avoid use of his sacred name, and then I came to those minced pronunciations, like gad and gar and ged and gog and goles and golly and gom and gosh jolly and gud and gum and adad and adod and bedad and begad and ecod and egad and gadzooks and garzoon. Because gar is only used by playwrights who put it chiefly in the mouths of foreigners.
You said, Oh god, my god, good god, followed by a good wish, to that god of my ever-closing gaps, for I receive god only ghostly, that goodly god that guides the globe, that god of love, that god of war, that god that blesses the god-blessed and the god-forsaken and the god-damned.
My god, my shame is on me, I said to the painterly painter, My god, my shame's inside me and must go forth my body, this beastbody, this dogsbody, this stony and bony bodykins that my god has plunged my soul into.
Last night I hung from the vine, from the branch, from the noose, until the sun stopped and the moon stood still, until my nation took vengeance upon my enemies.
Last night a piece of cake tumbled into our city and struck our walls until they fell. Then it rolled around and around until the entire city turned upside down. Meanwhile back at the lake, I lapped silver water until dirt came out of my wounds, until dirt came out of my mouth. Then I killed my lover, Montgomery, in a new scatological satire.
Last night nature ran hastily into its din, enthusiastically into its prison, wallowing in the flood of its patterning and randomness. Bedlam elected himself umpire and stood quickly in the midst of it, arranging and disarranging the very laws of nature. The earth vessel itself he plunged into the green and uneven horizon, and all at once, we entered a whole new world. In the beginning, the heavens and earth rose. In the beginning, we gave birth to the tiniest of errors. In the beginning, we watch for the rest of eternity as it blossoms and it blooms.



Bag of Mice
BY NICK FLYNN
I dreamt your suicide note
was scrawled in pencil on a brown paperbag,
& in the bag were six baby mice. The bag
opened into darkness,
smoldering
from the top down. The mice,
huddled at the bottom, scurried the bag
across a shorn field. I stood over it
& as the burning reached each carbon letter
of what you'd written
your voice released into the night
like a song, & the mice
grew wilder.
Cartoon Physics, Part 1
by Nick Flynn
Children under, say, ten, shouldn't know
that the universe is ever-expanding,
inexorably pushing into the vacuum, galaxies
swallowed by galaxies, whole
solar systems collapsing, all of it
acted out in silence. At ten we are still learning
the rules of cartoon animation,
that if a man draws a door on a rock
only he can pass through it.
Anyone else who tries
will crash into the rock. Ten-year-olds
should stick with burning houses, car wrecks,
ships going down -- earthbound, tangible
disasters, arenas
where they can be heroes. You can run
back into a burning house, sinking ships
have lifeboats, the trucks will come
with their ladders, if you jump
you will be saved. A child
places her hand on the roof of a schoolbus,
& drives across a city of sand. She knows
the exact spot it will skid, at which point
the bridge will give, who will swim to safety
& who will be pulled under by sharks. She will learn
that if a man runs off the edge of a cliff
he will not fall
until he notices his mistake.

Cartoon Physics, Part 2 
BY NICK FLYNN
Years ago, alone in her room, my mother cut 	a hole in the air  & vanished into it.The report hung & 	deafened, followed closely by an over-  whelming silence, a ringing 	in the ears.Today I take a piece of chalk  & sketch a door in a wall.By the rules 	of cartoon physics only I  can open this door.I want her 	to come with me, like in a dream of being dead,  the mansion filled with cots, 	one for everyone I’ve ever known.This desire  can be a cage, a dream that spills 	into waking, until I wander this city  as a rose-strewn funeral.Once 	upon a time, let’s say, my mother stepped  inside herself & no one 	could follow.More than once  I traded on this, until it transmuted into a story, 	the transubstantiation of desire,  I’d recite it as if I’d never told anyone, 	& it felt that way,  because I’d try not to cry yet always 	would, & the listener  would always hold me.Upstairs the water 	channels off you, back  into the earth, or to the river, through pipes 	hidden deep in these walls. I told you the story  of first learning to write my own name, chalk 	scrawl across our garage door,  so that when my mother pulled it down I’d 	appear, like a movie.
The Colonel
BY CAROLYN FORCHE
WHAT YOU HAVE HEARD is true. I was in his house. His wife carried 
a tray of coffee and sugar. His daughter filed her nails, his son went 
out for the night. There were daily papers, pet dogs, a pistol on the 
cushion beside him. The moon swung bare on its black cord over 
the house. On the television was a cop show. It was in English. 
Broken bottles were embedded in the walls around the house to 
scoop the kneecaps from a man's legs or cut his hands to lace. On 
the windows there were gratings like those in liquor stores. We had 
dinner, rack of lamb, good wine, a gold bell was on the table for 
calling the maid. The maid brought green mangoes, salt, a type of 
bread. I was asked how I enjoyed the country. There was a brief 
commercial in Spanish. His wife took everything away. There was 
some talk then of how difficult it had become to govern. The parrot 
said hello on the terrace. The colonel told it to shut up, and pushed 
himself from the table. My friend said to me with his eyes: say 
nothing. The colonel returned with a sack used to bring groceries 
home. He spilled many human ears on the table. They were like 
dried peach halves. There is no other way to say this. He took one 
of them in his hands, shook it in our faces, dropped it into a water 
glass. It came alive there. I am tired of fooling around he said. As 
for the rights of anyone, tell your people they can go fuck them- 
selves. He swept the ears to the floor with his arm and held the last 
of his wine in the air. Something for your poetry, no? he said. Some 
of the ears on the floor caught this scrap of his voice. Some of the 
ears on the floor were pressed to the ground. 
 
May 1978
how to get over (senior to freshman)
BY T'AI FREEDOM FORD
pick the big bitch:
the chick who look like
she chew screwdrivers.
hunched at the lunch table copying homework,
shredding syllables with a mouthful of metal.
shush the rebel
in your throat, that ghost of punk funking
dark circles in the pits of your polo.
resist the impulse to shittalk your way
through ranch dressing and lunchroom throng.
bumrush: snatch
song from her ears, tangle of headphone
wires and tracks of mangled weave.
nevermind uglying her face
with nails or an armful of bangles.
she already a jigsaw puzzle
of scratch and scar, every exposed part
caked in vaseline. every fold of fat
fortified with that free-free — french fries,
chickenshit shaped like tenders, cheese sticks.
she will slip’n slide you
if you don’t come correct.
pick you up by your bookbag
till you feel fly, camera phone red eyes
winking your punkass almost famous.
but that ain’t your fame to claim.
pitbull her ankles till she drop,
till ketchup and corn splatter,
scatter abstract like technique
from our 5th period art class.
as she knuckles herself up
from chickenfeed, ain’t no need to run.
instead smile for the video,
that soul-clap in your chest
is your heart.


Past Immaculate
BY BECKIAN FRITZ GOLDBERG
In those days every mother knew it was important to be clean, for her child to be clean, in case an accident occurred and you had to be undressed from your bloodiness by strangers, your underwear remained immaculate. The body, your body, was not allowed to speak. For when the body spoke it was foul, it was always some word like piss or fart or shit, some phrase like fucking asshole, some primitive sentence like Fuck you. And then that wretched guffaw of the puke. What a bilious vocabulary. To be clean, they knew, was to be vigilant. Bodies should be seen and not heard.
In those days, bodies knew their place and kept it and when the ambulance driver gave you up to the gurney in ER you were perfume. This is what the old men mean when they talk about the past saying, I remember when bodies were like lilacs and crisp snow. And another nodding, And quiet, so quiet a ghost might take them for a spirit. I remember, another says, an arm bright as a kitchen. And I remember, one is saying, a sex of soap roses. A regret as hard as bleach. 
“A Woman’s Place”
by Denice Frohman
i heard a woman becomes herself
the first time she speaks
without permission
then, every word out of her mouth
a riot
say, beautiful
& point to the map of your body
say, brave
& wear your skin like a gown or a suit
say, hero
& cast yourself in the lead role
///
when a girl pronounces her own name
there is glory
when a woman tells her own story
she lives forever
all the women i know are perennials—
marigolds, daffodils
soft things that refuse to die
i don’t come from anything tamed or willing
i come from soil flossed with barbed wire
meaning, abuela would cuss you out
with the same breath she kissed
you with her blood
a wild river
my mother doesn’t rely on instruction manuals
or men nor does she equate the two
can fix anything
if you get out of her way
says the best technology
is her own two hands
///
but once, i dreamed I had no teeth
just a mouth to hold
other people’s things
if this poem is the only thing that survives
me
tell them i grew a new tongue
tell them i built me a throne
tell them when we discovered life on another planet
it was a woman
& she built a bridge, not a border
got god & named gravity
after herself.
To Earthward
				 				 					 					
Love at the lips was touch
As sweet as I could bear;
And once that seemed too much;
I lived on air
That crossed me from sweet things,
The flow of - was it musk
From hidden grapevine springs
Down hill at dusk?
I had the swirl and ache
From sprays of honeysuckle
That when they're gathered shake
Dew on the knuckle.
I craved strong sweets, but those
Seemed strong when I was young;
The petal of the rose
It was that stung.
Now no joy but lacks salt
That is not dashed with pain
And weariness and fault;
I crave the stain
Of tears, the aftermark
Of almost too much love,
The sweet of bitter bark
And burning clove.
When stiff and sore and scarred
I take away my hand
From leaning on it hard
In grass and sand,
The hurt is not enough:
I long for weight and strength
To feel the earth as rough
To all my length. 						
Desert Places
				 				 					 					
Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fast
In a field I looked into going past,
And the ground almost covered smooth in snow,
But a few weeds and stubble showing last.
The woods around it have it - it is theirs.
All animals are smothered in their lairs.
I am too absent-spirited to count;
The loneliness includes me unawares.
And lonely as it is, that loneliness
Will be more lonely ere it will be less -
A blanker whiteness of benighted snow
WIth no expression, nothing to express.
They cannot scare me with their empty spaces
Between stars - on stars where no human race is.
I have it in me so much nearer home
To scare myself with my own desert places. 						
Design
				 				 					 					
I found a dimpled spider, fat and white,
On a white heal-all, holding up a moth
Like a white piece of rigid satin cloth --
Assorted characters of death and blight
Mixed ready to begin the morning right,
Like the ingredients of a witches' broth --
A snow-drop spider, a flower like a froth,
And dead wings carried like a paper kite.
What had that flower to do with being white,
The wayside blue and innocent heal-all?
What brought the kindred spider to that height,
Then steered the white moth thither in the night?
What but design of darkness to appall?--
If design govern in a thing so small. 						
Directive
BY ROBERT FROST
Back out of all this now too much for us, Back in a time made simple by the loss Of detail, burned, dissolved, and broken off Like graveyard marble sculpture in the weather, There is a house that is no more a house Upon a farm that is no more a farm And in a town that is no more a town. The road there, if you’ll let a guide direct you Who only has at heart your getting lost, May seem as if it should have been a quarry— Great monolithic knees the former town Long since gave up pretense of keeping covered. And there’s a story in a book about it: Besides the wear of iron wagon wheels The ledges show lines ruled southeast-northwest, The chisel work of an enormous Glacier That braced his feet against the Arctic Pole. You must not mind a certain coolness from him Still said to haunt this side of Panther Mountain. Nor need you mind the serial ordeal Of being watched from forty cellar holes As if by eye pairs out of forty firkins. As for the woods’ excitement over you That sends light rustle rushes to their leaves, Charge that to upstart inexperience. Where were they all not twenty years ago? They think too much of having shaded out A few old pecker-fretted apple trees. Make yourself up a cheering song of how Someone’s road home from work this once was, Who may be just ahead of you on foot Or creaking with a buggy load of grain. The height of the adventure is the height Of country where two village cultures faded Into each other. Both of them are lost. And if you’re lost enough to find yourself By now, pull in your ladder road behind you And put a sign up CLOSED to all but me. Then make yourself at home. The only field Now left’s no bigger than a harness gall. First there’s the children’s house of make-believe, Some shattered dishes underneath a pine, The playthings in the playhouse of the children. Weep for what little things could make them glad. Then for the house that is no more a house, But only a belilaced cellar hole, Now slowly closing like a dent in dough. This was no playhouse but a house in earnest. Your destination and your destiny’s A brook that was the water of the house, Cold as a spring as yet so near its source, Too lofty and original to rage. (We know the valley streams that when aroused Will leave their tatters hung on barb and thorn.) I have kept hidden in the instep arch Of an old cedar at the waterside A broken drinking goblet like the Grail Under a spell so the wrong ones can’t find it, So can’t get saved, as Saint Mark says they mustn’t. (I stole the goblet from the children’s playhouse.) Here are your waters and your watering place. Drink and be whole again beyond confusion. 
Neither Out Far Nor In Deep
				 				 					 					
The people along the sand
All turn and look one way.
They turn their back on the land.
They look at the sea all day.
As long as it takes to pass
A ship keeps raising its hull;
The wetter ground like glass
Reflects a standing gull
The land may vary more;
But wherever the truth may be--
The water comes ashore,
And the people look at the sea.
They cannot look out far.
They cannot look in deep.
But when was that ever a bar
To any watch they keep? 						
The Fear
BY ROBERT FROST
A lantern light from deeper in the barn
Shone on a man and woman in the door
And threw their lurching shadows on a house
Near by, all dark in every glossy window.
A horse's hoof pawed once the hollow floor,
And the back of the gig they stood beside
Moved in a little. The man grasped a wheel,
The woman spoke out sharply, "Whoa, stand still!"
"I saw it just as plain as a white plate,"
She said, "as the light on the dashboard ran
Along the bushes at the roadside--a man's face.
You must have seen it too."
"I didn't see it.
Are you sure----"
"Yes, I'm sure!"
"--it was a face?"
"Joel, I'll have to look. I can't go in,
I can't, and leave a thing like that unsettled.
Doors locked and curtains drawn will make no difference.
I always have felt strange when we came home
To the dark house after so long an absence,
And the key rattled loudly into place
Seemed to warn someone to be getting out
At one door as we entered at another.
What if I'm right, and someone all the time--
Don't hold my arm!"
"I say it's someone passing."
"You speak as if this were a travelled road.
You forget where we are. What is beyond
That he'd be going to or coming from
At such an hour of night, and on foot too.
What was he standing still for in the bushes?"
"It's not so very late--it's only dark.
There's more in it than you're inclined to say.
Did he look like----?"
"He looked like anyone.
I'll never rest to-night unless I know.
Give me the lantern."
"You don't want the lantern."
She pushed past him and got it for herself.
"You're not to come," she said. "This is my business.
If the time's come to face it, I'm the one
To put it the right way. He'd never dare--
Listen! He kicked a stone. Hear that, hear that!
He's coming towards us. Joel, go in--please.
Hark!--I don't hear him now. But please go in."
"In the first place you can't make me believe it's----"
"It is--or someone else he's sent to watch.
And now's the time to have it out with him
While we know definitely where he is.
Let him get off and he'll be everywhere
Around us, looking out of trees and bushes
Till I sha'n't dare to set a foot outdoors.
And I can't stand it. Joel, let me go!"
"But it's nonsense to think he'd care enough."
"You mean you couldn't understand his caring.
Oh, but you see he hadn't had enough--
Joel, I won't--I won't--I promise you.
We mustn't say hard things. You mustn't either."
"I'll be the one, if anybody goes!
But you give him the advantage with this light.
What couldn't he do to us standing here!
And if to see was what he wanted, why
He has seen all there was to see and gone."
He appeared to forget to keep his hold,
But advanced with her as she crossed the grass.
"What do you want?" she cried to all the dark.
She stretched up tall to overlook the light
That hung in both hands hot against her skirt.
"There's no one; so you're wrong," he said.
"There is.--
What do you want?" she cried, and then herself
Was startled when an answer really came.
"Nothing." It came from well along the road.
She reached a hand to Joel for support:
The smell of scorching woollen made her faint.
"What are you doing round this house at night?"
"Nothing." A pause: there seemed no more to say.
And then the voice again: "You seem afraid.
I saw by the way you whipped up the horse.
I'll just come forward in the lantern light
And let you see."
"Yes, do.--Joel, go back!"
She stood her ground against the noisy steps
That came on, but her body rocked a little.
"You see," the voice said.
"Oh." She looked and looked.
"You don't see--I've a child here by the hand."
"What's a child doing at this time of night----?"
"Out walking. Every child should have the memory
Of at least one long-after-bedtime walk.
What, son?"
"Then I should think you'd try to find
Somewhere to walk----"
"The highway as it happens--
We're stopping for the fortnight down at Dean's."
"But if that's all--Joel--you realize--
You won't think anything. You understand?
You understand that we have to be careful.
This is a very, very lonely place.
Joel!" She spoke as if she couldn't turn.
The swinging lantern lengthened to the ground,
It touched, it struck it, clattered and went out. 
The Lovely Shall Be Choosers
The Voice said, "Hurl her down!"
The Voices, "How far down?"
"Seven levels of the world."
"How much time have we?"
"Take twenty years.
She would refuse love safe with wealth and honor!
The lovely shall be choosers, shall they?
Then let them choose!"
"Then we shall let her choose?"
"Yes, let her choose.
Take up the task beyond her choosing."
Invisible hands crowned on her shoulder
In readiness to weigh upon her.
But she stood straight still,
In broad round earrings, gold and jet with pearls,
And broad round suchlike brooch,
Her cheeks high-colored,
Proud and the pride of friends.
The Voice asked, "You can let her choose?"
"Yes, we can let her and still triumph."
"Do it by joys, and leave her always blameless.
Be her first joy her wedding,
That though a wedding,
is yet--well, something they know, he and she.
And after that her next joy
That though she grieves, her grief is secret:
Those friends know nothing of her grief to make it shameful.
Her third joy that though now they cannot help but know,
They move in pleasure too far off
To think much or much care.
Give her a child at either knee for fourth joy
To tell once and once only, for them never to forget,
How once she walked in brightness,
And make them see it in the winter firelight.
But give her friends, for then she dare not tell
For their foregone incredulousness.
And be her next joy this:
Her never having deigned to tell them.
Make her among the humblest even
Seem to them less than they are.
Hopeless of being known for what she has been,
Failing of being loved for what she is,
Give her the comfort for her sixth of knowing
She fails from strangeness to a way of life
She came to from too high too late to learn.
Then send some one with eyes to see
And wonder at her where she is,
And words to wonder in her hearing how she came there,
But without time to linger for her story.
Be her last joy her heart's going out to this one
So that she almost speaks.
You know them--seven in all."
"Trust us," the Voices said
The Subverted Flower
BY ROBERT FROST
She drew back; he was calm:
"It is this that had the power."
And he lashed his open palm
With the tender-headed flower.
He smiled for her to smile,
But she was either blind
Or willfully unkind.
He eyed her for a while
For a woman and a puzzle.
He flicked and flung the flower,
And another sort of smile
Caught up like fingertips
The corners of his lips
And cracked his ragged muzzle.
She was standing to the waist
In golden rod and brake,
Her shining hair displaced.
He stretched her either arm
As if she made it ache
To clasp her - not to harm;
As if he could not spare
To touch her neck and hair.
"If this has come to us
And not to me alone -"
So she thought she heard him say;
Though with every word he spoke
His lips were sucked and blown
And the effort made him choke
Like a tiger at a bone.
She had to lean away.
She dared not stir a foot,
Lest movement should provoke 
The demon of pursuit
That slumbers in a brute.
It was then her mother’s call
From inside the garden wall
Made her steal a look of fear
To see if he could hear
And would pounce to end it all
Before her mother came.
She looked and saw the shame:
A hand hung like a paw,
An arm worked like a saw
As if to be persuasive,
An ingratiating laugh
That cut the snout in half,
And eye become evasive.
A girl could only see
That a flower had marred a man,
But what she could not see
Was that the flower might be 
Other than base and fetid:
That the flower had done but part,
And what the flower began
Her own too meager heart
Had terribly completed.
She looked and saw the worst.
And the dog or what it was,
Obeying bestial laws,
A coward save at night,
Turned from the place and ran.
She heard him stumble first
And use his hands in flight.
She heard him bark outright.
And oh, for one so young
The bitter words she spit
Like some tenacious bit
That will not leave the tongue.
She plucked her lips for it,
And still the horror clung. 
Her mother wiped the foam
From her chin, picked up her comb,
And drew her backward home.
Glucose Self-Monitoring
BY KATY GIEBENHAIN
A stabbing in miniature, it is,
a tiny crime,
my own blood parceled
drop by drop and set
on the flickering tongue
of this machine.
It is the spout-punching of trees
for syrup new and smooth
and sweeter
than nature ever intended.
It is Sleeping Beauty's curse
and fascination.
It is the dipstick measuring of oil
from the Buick's throat,
the necessary maintenance.
It is every vampire movie ever made.
Hand, my martyr without lips,
my quiet cow.
I'll milk your fingertips
for all they're worth.
For what they're worth.
Something like a harvest, it is,
a tiny crime.
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE DOUBLE
By Tess Gallagher
So now it’s your turn,
little mother of silences, little
father of half-belief. Take up
this face, these daily rounds
with a cabbage under each arm
convincing the multitudes
that a well-made-anything
could save them. Take up
most of all, these hands
trained to an ornate piano
in a house on the other side
of the country.
I’m staying here
without music, without
applause. I’m not going
to wait up for you. Take
your time. Take mine
too. Get into some trouble
I’ll have to account for. Walk
into some bars alone
with a slit in your skirt. Let
the men follow you on the street
with their clumsy propositions, their
loud hatreds of this and that. Keep
walking. Keep your head
up. They are calling to you–slut, mother,
virgin, whore, daughter, adultress, lover,
mistress, bitch, wife, cunt, harlot,
betrothed, Jezebel, Messalina, Diana,
Bethsheba, Rebecca, Lucretia, Mary,
Magdelena, Ruth, you–Niobe,
woman of the tombs.
Don’t stop for anything, not
a caress or a promise. Go
to the temple of the poets, not
the one like a run-down country club,
but the one on fire
with so much it wants
to be done with. Say all the last words
and the first: hello, goodbye, yes,
I, no, please, always, never.
If anyone from the country club
asks if you write poems, say
your name is Lizzie Borden.
Show him your axe, the one
they gave you with a silver
blade, your name engraved there
like a whisper of their own.
If anyone calls you a witch,
burn for him; if anyone calls you
less or more than you are
let him burn for you.
It’s a dangerous mission. You
could die out there. You
could live forever.
AUBADE
BY SARAH GALVIN 
I’ll live in any structure available.
I’ll shove my sleeping bag into a newspaper box,
and drag the box into a parking garage
so I can live in both at once.
I refuse to interact with a structure any other way.
When I tried just fucking somewhere,
it was like a sad country song.
When I tried just eating somewhere,
it was like a sad country song about breakfast.
The songs were barely audible
and seemed to come from nowhere,
I could only endure them if I imagined
everyone who had ever lived in those places was with me.
I’ve gotten good at living in things,
but I like it best when all the things go away—
like the morning we woke up on a cement floor
where neither of us lived,
on a street white with frost
that disappeared in a white cloud.
Everything was gone but us sad country singers,
and somewhere an audience cheered and cheered.
I Live in an Actual Flophouse
BY SARAH GALVIN
built for destitute men in the 1920’s,
although it’s 2015 and I’m
made entirely of expensive marble,
especially my enormous breasts.
This may explain why,
as my first romantic gesture to you,
I played a song called “Party Time”
about an orgy of grandparents
at a family reunion.
It isn’t true that stone hearts
are always cold, as anyone
who has smelled rain
on summer freeways knows.
My weird mineral heart, sincerely
in love, longed to
present you with a sincere
representation of that love’s reality.
On My 60th Birthday I Will Dig Up a Dead Body
BY SARAH GALVIN
I know I will be 30 in two months
because the Parks Concierge is jaywalking.
When I was 10, he was just a guy
in a green vest crossing the street fast.
I imagine him in 30 years as a
a disco ball of shimmering descriptors.
The world emerges from time
like a teenager coming out
of a blackout
to find themselves naked,
alternately barfing
and singing
in their own back yard.
THE SIGN WITH NOTHING ON IT
By Sarah Galvin
This blank sign in front of the motel was my favorite object in the neighborhood as a child. It is shaped like it outlines words, but it has been a solid gray-green for as long as I can remember. “Look, it’s the sign with nothing on it!” I yelled to my parents when we passed it in the car. After much thought about why a blank sign existed, I decided it must be art.
My uncle said, “Paintings of the crucifixion can be beautiful. That’s the difference between a
real crucifixion and a painting. That’s why people make paintings.”
The night my mom drove her car into the front yard, my uncle came all the way to our house. I
was standing alone in the kitchen with the lights off, and he picked me up. My uncle who used to put his fake teeth in his belly button and make it talk to me.
I imagined crucifixions were the popsicle truck colors of the neighbors’ weathered plastic Jesus, and smelled like adults’ coats after some event where it was necessary to sit down and be quiet.
The Room of Disembodied Excitement
BY SARAH GALVIN		
No one wants to know about your
publications or your missing fingers or your
Dodge Charger. They have been waiting
all night, perhaps all their lives,
to tell you why their sister is a bitch.
No one wants to hear the nervous catalogue
of anecdotes that mean “I like you,”
they would like to know if
the beers in the kitchen are free.
Their sister just sent them another
text subtly mocking their apartment.
Do you really like this person
or does it just comfort you
to sleep next to someone?
You once thought sleeping near your parents,
even if the closest you could get
was the bedroom floor,
would ensure they lived through the night.
You remember Tom of Finland said,
“If I don’t have an erection
when I’m visiting a museum,
I know it’s no good,”
and you love the idea
of a room of disembodied excitement.
You take out a sharpie and draw a perfect ass
on the face of the person you’re talking with.
The lines extend to the edges
of their face, and onto the wall, and into
the air. They spread farther and farther
until you can’t see the ends anymore.
Your Name Embroidered On It
by Sarah Galvin
There will be a meteor shower at 3am, 
this Kate Bush album is good, 
Nick, who I sort of knew, died yesterday— 
I tell you anything.
I told you when a guy in Pioneer Square  
yelled at me, “Someone just  
died back there!”
 I heard sirens 
Then he added, “Ya got a nice butt!”
I could think of  
no better response to death.
I told you that when Nick died I pulled his old bag,  
embroidered with his nickname, “Fingers,”
 from under my bed and cried,  
thinking of a painting he made  
of a refrigerator with a forest inside it.
I told you the lace of peeling gray paint 
surrounding an electrical meter 
which no one else would notice but you
 made me feel like a moderately-priced car  
rattling from outrageously
 loud, clear speakers.
All these words would be depleted by your absence 
like the word “Fingers” on that bag
I could walk around complimenting strangers’ butts, 
except “butts” would mean something different if you died
 and so would “compliments.”
I wouldn’t know what to pull from under my bed
 or put back.
Your Invitation to a Modest Breakfast
BY HANNAH GAMBLE
It’s too cold to smoke outside, but if you come over,
I’ll keep my hands to myself, or won’t I.
I would like to tell you about the wall eaten up
 
by the climbing plant—it was so beautiful.
Various things have been happening to me,
all of them sexual. The man on the bus
 
took off his pants so I could see him better.
Another man said, “Ignore him darlin’.
Just sit on my lap.” But I’m not one of those
 
who’s hungriest in the morning,
unlike the man at the bakery
who eats egg after egg after egg.
 
Listen. Come over: the cold has already eaten
the summer. I need another pair of ears:
from the kitchen I can’t tell if I’m hearing wind chimes
 
or some gray woman with failing arms
dropping a pan full of onions and potatoes.
	This morning I need four hands—
 
two to wash the greens, one to lift a teakettle,
one to pour the milk. This morning, one little mouth
will not do. We could play a game
 
where we crouch on the tiles, two yellow dogs
drinking coffee from bowls. We could play a game
where we let the breakfast burn.
 
Outside there’s a world where every love scene
begins with a man in a doorway;
he walks over to the woman and says “Open your mouth.”
For Some Slight I Can’t Quite Recall
BY ROSS GAY
Was with the pudgy hands of a thirteen-year-old that I took the marble of his head just barely balanced on his reedy neck and with the brute tutelage of years fighting the neighbor kids and too the lightning of my father’s stiff palm I leaned the boy’s head full force into the rattly pane of glass on the school bus and did so with the eagle of justice screaming in my ear as he always does for the irate and stupid I made the window sing and bend and the skinny boy too whose eyes grew to lakes lit by mortar fire bleating with his glasses crooked I’m not an animal walking in place on the green vinyl seat looking far away and me watching him and probably almost smiling at the song and dance I made of the weak and skinny boy who towering above me became even smaller and bizarre and birdlike pinned and beating his wings frantically against his cage and me probably almost smiling as is the way of the stupid and cruel watching the weak and small and innocent not getting away.
Poem Beginning with a Line Overheard at the Gym
BY ROSS GAY
I’d drive a thousand miles to suck the dick
of the man who fucked her once. If you’re like
me, the pristine lilt of iambic verse will halt
your dumb work on the bench press. You also love
the hyperbolic rattling of logic’s cage.
Mostly, you love the way the loins fuel
the tongue's conjure. But what grand sadness dragged
in misplaced desire; as though from another's memory
of smoke we might glean some end
of ache. Truth be told, ache’s shop is long
set up. Is birth’s phantom. Let’s, instead admire
the tether. Its
wrangle with the loamy earth for the body,
the keepsake.
Wedding Poem
BY ROSS GAY
	
for Keith and Jen
Friends I am here to modestly report
seeing in an orchard
in my town
a goldfinch kissing
a sunflower
again and again
dangling upside down
by its tiny claws
steadying itself by snapping open
like an old-timey fan
its wings
again and again,
until, swooning, it tumbled off
and swooped back to the very same perch,
where the sunflower curled its giant
swirling of seeds
around the bird and leaned back
to admire the soft wind
nudging the bird’s plumage,
and friends I could see
the points on the flower’s stately crown
soften and curl inward
as it almost indiscernibly lifted
the food of its body
to the bird’s nuzzling mouth
whose fervor
I could hear from
oh 20 or 30 feet away
and see from the tiny hulls
that sailed from their
good racket,
which good racket, I have to say,
was making me blush,
and rock up on my tippy-toes,
and just barely purse my lips
with what I realize now
was being, simply, glad,
which such love,
if we let it,
makes us feel.
When After Some Time, Finally, Your Kids are at Their Dad’s
BY ROSS GAY
is to be sunk in this muck-
fisted tussle this must this mud
this panty-yanking kung-fu
this reptile pre-fuck
of slurps and growls
of grunts and hisses
our eyes gone weird and filmy
our teeth squirming in our gums
the lightning writhing off our backs
and when I put my tongue
through you to read with it
the scrawl crawling your skull’s craggy walls
which is kind of like
sucking your brains out
but more literary
I get scared I’m hurting you and stop
but you say please don’t
and bite a hole in my throat
through which the moon
unbuckling her bonnet of bone
plunges parched
and slurping
into the swamp we’ve made
of our want.
DEAR READER,
BY AMY GERSTLER
Through what precinct of life’s forest are you hiking at this moment?
Are you kicking up leaf litter or stabbed by brambles?
Of what stuff are you made? Gossamer or chain mail?
Are you, as reputed, marvelously empty? Or invisibly ever-present,
even as this missive is typed? Have you been to Easter Island? Yes?
Then I’m jealous. Do you use a tongue depressor as bookmark?
Are you reading this at an indecent hour by flashlight?
Plenty of scholarly ink has been spilt praising readers like yourself,
who risk radical dismantling, or being unmasked, by rappelling
deep into sentences. Your trigger warnings could be triggered every
second, yet you forge on, mystic syllables detonating in your head,
the metal-edged smell of monsoon-downpour on hot asphalt
raising steam in your imagination. You hold out for the phrase
with which the soul resonates, am I right? Reading, you’re seized
by tingly feelings, a rustling in the brain, winds that tickle your scalp,
bubbles erupting from a blow hole at the back of your neck.
You forget the breathy woman talking softly on TV across the lobby
(via TiVo you’ve saved her for later.) Birds outside are cracking jokes
and cackling. Reader, smile to yourself, rock the cradle, kiss
everyone you wish to kiss, and please keep reading. It beats
fielding threatening phone calls for $15 an hour which is what
yours truly is meant to be doing right now, instead of speculating
on the strange and happy manifestations of, you, dear reader, you.
Spirit in the Dark
BY ROBERT GIBB
What to make of the night we sat up late,
Listening to Beethoven's Ninth
In that otherwise darkened apartment?
The New York Philharmonic
Was gathering together the fragments
At the fourth movement's start--
Momentum they'd ride like a wave
Through the fanfare and final chorus--
When we felt something else enter the air,
A front in the weather of the room.
It sat us upright on the edge of our chairs
While it tracked toward the record
And hung suspended for a measure or two
Above the still point of the stylus.
Then, just as steadily, it withdrew,
A patch of fog that had been burned off . . .
The look the dead raised on your face
Must have been the same on my own.
"What was that?" our expressions asked.
Decades later, I'd still like to know.
And what changes, if any, were played
Upon us?And did any of them take?
"Be embraced," the chorus sang,
And then the crescendo and kettledrums,
The whole Ninth welling before us
Before fading as well from the room.
Failing and Flying
BY JACK GILBERT
Everyone forgets that Icarus also flew.
It's the same when love comes to an end,
or the marriage fails and people say
they knew it was a mistake, that everybody
said it would never work. That she was
old enough to know better. But anything
worth doing is worth doing badly.
Like being there by that summer ocean
on the other side of the island while
love was fading out of her, the stars
burning so extravagantly those nights that
anyone could tell you they would never last.
Every morning she was asleep in my bed
like a visitation, the gentleness in her
like antelope standing in the dawn mist.
Each afternoon I watched her coming back
through the hot stony field after swimming,
the sea light behind her and the huge sky
on the other side of that. Listened to her
while we ate lunch. How can they say
the marriage failed? Like the people who
came back from Provence (when it was Provence)
and said it was pretty but the food was greasy.
I believe Icarus was not failing as he fell,
but just coming to the end of his triumph.
HARD WIRED
 
 
He is shamelessly happy to feel the thing
inside him. He labors up through the pines
with firewood and goes back down again.
Winter on the way. Roses and blackberries
finished, and the iris gone before that.
The peas dead in the garden and the beans
almost done. His tomatoes are finally ripe.
The thing is inside him like that, and will
come back. An old thing, a dangerous one.
Precious to him. He meets the raccoon often
in the dark and ends up throwing stones.
The raccoon gets behind a tree. Comes again,
cautious and fierce. It stops halfway.
They stand glaring in the faint starlight.
 
 
 
Jack Gilbert, The Great Fires
For Patrick Rosal Who Wore A Dress & Said
-Aracelis Girmay
A dude rocks a slick green dress once, for kicks, 
& the whole gender paradigm has to shift? Come on.
Haven’t you seen the women glide down streets
with frocks so wide you envied them their summer
shimmy, the loose-loose dazzle of their dresses
above knees? Not just the knees. But the dresses
above the knees. Haven’t you wanted to stand at the mirror
as the sister you never had, so bad, you could almost feel
the bird of her voice start to rise inside your own throat? Nightingale.
Listen. Once, in June, the dress was green,
& I flew into it from the diving board of my sex
& I didn’t care that the trees were watching. & I didn’t care
who saw. In fact, I ran out the door, into the magenta hall
of the Campus Inn hotel where I was visiting, & a poet,
& I laughed & laughed & laughed. I didn’t care
that the rooms were full. I didn’t care
that people might hear. In fact, I wanted them
to catch me in the lit Technicolor of my glee & mistake me for
a flashlight. Or a discotheque. For a bald & handsome lola
parading my two strong legs through the hall, out
onto the street, singing to strangers
something lovely about the breeze, have
mercy. I wore a dress & it made me nice, yes. Once,
I was a man who stood inside of a dress
& loved it with my whole brain. My body did not change
from its line, before or after. My name did not change, but
I moved into that green, & it was easy – to swing
the regions of my body with new grace
as the street sang up to me from below, Go on,
& my hairs stood up like switchgrass
atop the gold fields of my skin, bless
this holy, holy chance to move
above the ground
like this.
1-800-FEAR
BY JODY GLADDING
We'dliketotalkwithyouaboutfear theysaidso
manypeopleliveinfearthesedaystheydroveup
allfouroftheminasmallcar nice boytheysaid
beautifuldogs theysaidsofriendlythemanahead
ofthewomanthe othertwowaitinginthedriveI 
wasoutside digging up the garden no one home I said 
what areyouselling anywayI'm notinterestedI 
saidwellyouhaveanicedaytheysaidhere'sour 
cardthere's aphonenumberyoucancallanytime 
anyother housesdownthisroadanyoneelse live 
herewe'dliketotalktothemaboutlivinginfear
In West Virginia
BY MAGGIE GLOVER
Each morning was a fresh, blue breakdown.
I perfected my skills of isolation among those hills,
the splash back of creeks and muddied snow drifts.
I had enough money, but not enough money. I learned
the word “holler” and made friends with a boy who was born into one,
his pin-cushion eyes haunted by whatever took longer than it should, 
which was everything. On the worst nights, he drove alone 
on the back roads, ashing cigarettes into an empty can,
swerving back and forth to avoid the whitetails and turtles.
I made difficult choices. We kept in touch.
Poem from the Hotel
 BY MAGGIE GLOVER
 
Frustrated with my reform efforts, I gave up—
stopped tending to myself like an injured whitetail(nursing
the broken parts with a handkerchief,a round of gauze to lift
the ooze away from the body,) and mapped out my identity loss
in real space, like a blood splatter. The cold wind from the bar window 
reminds me that there are still palm trees in December, swaying.
This means nothing to me, dear reader.I am already aware of my choices. 
I can care, or not care.I can wait, or not wait. I cannot be armed by my secrets.
I do not know what they are. I can ask you for another chance.This time,
with a plot: a man walks into a bar. He sits next to a woman, who is wearing
only one shoe. He asks her for a cigarette.His blue eyes have blue eyes.
She is already dead. She gives him the cigarette, anyway.
“THAT BAG IS SICK IN THE HEAD!”: A SONNET FOR MARC JACOBS
BY MAGGIE GLOVER
In your favorite logo T, in my favorite garish purple,
you roll your sweet-doped mouth over those smoky M’s—
More Muscle Milk!—oh, we both have our riddles:
my poems, your pantsuits: The wrong side is the right side!
Refresh me & my stubborn puff; my sweaters desire
your pins & needles: an alligator pattern, bells & bells.
We’ll Hustle to screwy Pachabel, Sofia will film from afar
(if they throw hams our way, what can we do?) My Grunge Prince,
wear that crisp white collar & I’ll be your bluebird-doll,
your little tattoo—even wear your glam-disco-man shoe,
bleach stars & tea-dye purses, strap on your paper wings & spring
along the roof, shouting: Store opening in London!
while you, Sweet Trend-Bucker, laugh and sing:
Let’s throw another sparkle-ball into the wind!
The Red Poppy
By Louise Glück
The great thing is not having  a mind. Feelings: oh, I have those; they  govern me. I have  a lord in heaven  called the sun, and open  for him, showing him the fire of my own heart, fire  like his presence. What could such glory be if not a heart? Oh my brothers and sisters,  were you like me once, long ago,  before you were human? Did you  permit yourselves to open once, who would never  open again? Because in truth  I am speaking now  the way you do. I speak  because I am shattered.
The Wild Iris
BY LOUISE GLUCK
At the end of my suffering
there was a door.
Hear me out: that which you call death
I remember.
Overhead, noises, branches of the pine shifting.
Then nothing. The weak sun
flickered over the dry surface.
It is terrible to survive
as consciousness
buried in the dark earth.
Then it was over: that which you fear, being
a soul and unable
to speak, ending abruptly, the stiff earth
bending a little. And what I took to be
birds darting in low shrubs.
You who do not remember
passage from the other world
I tell you I could speak again: whatever
returns from oblivion returns
to find a voice:
from the center of my life came
a great fountain, deep blue
shadows on azure seawater. 
Witchgrass
BY LOUISE GLUCK
Something
comes into the world unwelcome
calling disorder, disorder–
If you hate me so much
don’t bother to give me
a name: do you need
one more slur
in your language, another
way to blame
one tribe for everything–
as we both know,
if you worship
one god, you only need
one enemy–
I’m not the enemy.
Only a ruse to ignore
what you see happening
right here in this bed,
a little paradigm
of failure. One of your precious flowers
dies here almost every day
and you can’t rest until
you attack the cause, meaning
whatever is left, whatever
happens to be sturdier
than your personal passion–
It was not meant
to last forever in the real world.
But why admit that, when you can go on
doing what you always do,
mourning and laying blame,
always the two together.
I don’t need your praise
to survive. I was here first,
before you were here, before
you ever planted a garden.
And I’ll be here when only the sun and moon
are left, and the sea, and the wide field.
I will constitute the field.

Suitcase Song
BY ALBERT GOLDBARTH
John-O was given a key to the apartment. The deal 
was this: if Phil died suddenly, and John-O heard, 
he would rush on over, enter the apartment, leave 
unseen with Phil’s brown suitcase, and secretly pitch it 
into the mounded deeps of the city dump. 
Simply, there were things that Phil didn’t want 
to hurt his family with. Do you have yours? 
I have mine. The brown suitcase. Sasha’s sister, 
on her deathbed—dinky, frail, just a mild 
skim-milk trickle of a hospice patient—
tensed, sat up, and unloosed 
such confessional invective that it seemed the walls 
and the sheets would have to be splattered in shit, 
her cancer having acted with the harsh, disbursing 
force of a tornado on the brown and hard-shelled 
suitcase in her electrochemical memory webs. 
Is yours secure? from love? from sodium pentathol? 
Last year, when a tornado hit our fringe 
of downtown businesses, the air was alive for counties around 
with the downward dance of naked canceled checks, 
handwritten notes, hotel receipts, e-mail transcripts, 
smeary Polaroids, a swirl of lacy underwisps 
that jellyfished the skies, and from The G-Spot Shoppe 
a rain of plastic pleasure aids, of which one prime example 
pierced a cow between the eyes and struck her dead. 
Maybe AIDS—I wasn’t sure. But he was dying, 
that was sure: as dry as a stick of human chalk, 
and making the terrible scritch-sound of a stick of chalk, 
in his throat, in the community air, in the room 
across from Sasha’s sister. Something . . . hidden
in the trace of rundown aura still around him 
as we chatted there one morning . . . a tv? a sissyboy tv? 
I wasn’t sure, but it was obvious 
his life-chalk held a story not yet written, 
not confessed yet 
for this storyniverous planet. 
And when I remembered my mother’s own 
last days . . . the way a person is a narrative, 
the strength of which is either 
revelation or withholding. It was summer, and the garden 
at the nursing home was fat with summer’s pleasures: 
flowered mounds like reefs of coral, 
bees as globular as whole yolks. 
In her room, my mother disappeared a breath 
at a time, and everything else was only a kind of scenery for that. 
The wink of pollen in the light. The birds. Their feather-lice. 
The bursting spores. Those opened-up 
cicada husks abandoned on the patio 
—the small, brown, unlocked luggage 
that’s completed its work in this world.
Nurse Marble
BY JOHANNES GÖRANSSON
Knowledge is Power. That is what the billboard says and I agree. I am an adult, therefore I understand the threat of passengers. The threat to Our Children, who don't understand the threat of these bird-like, twitchy people. They pose two kinds of threat. To begin with, there is the one we all know about, the preda­tory threat, the hawk-like passengers that prey on children as they sit in front of their computers or televisions. The terrorist threat. That threat is easy to handle. You shoot it. You contain it. You confiscate. You stitch. You bleed from various orifices and sockets, but you survive, you rebuild house and rinse the child. The more serious threat is the diseases passengers carry with them. Internal terrorism. Children love those diseases. It makes them babble like possessed. Their make-up looks like oil in the moonlight. Such children cannot be cleaned off. Kill them. Or turn them into entertainment. Art.
Slowly: a plainsong from an older woman to a younger woman
BY JUDY GRAHN
am I not	olden olden olden
it is unwanted.
wanting, wanting
am I not	 broken
stolen	common
am I not crinkled cranky poison
am I not glinty-eyed and frozen
am I not	aged
shaky	 glazing
am I not	hazy
guarded	craven
am I not only
stingy	little
am I not	simple
brittle	spitting
was I not	over
over	ridden?
it is a long story
will you be proud to be my version?
it is unwritten.
writing, writing
am I not	 ancient
raging	patient
am I not	 able
charming	stable
was I not	building
forming	braving
was I not	ruling
guiding	naming
was I not	brazen
crazy	chosen
even the stones would do my bidding?
it is a long story
am I not proud to be your version?
it is unspoken.
speaking, speaking
am I not	elder
berry
brandy
are you not wine before you find me
in your own beaker?
The Common Women Poems, II. Ella, in a square apron, along Highway 80
BY JUDY GRAHN
She’s a copperheaded waitress,
tired and sharp-worded, she hides
her bad brown tooth behind a wicked
smile, and flicks her ass
out of habit, to fend off the pass
that passes for affection.
She keeps her mind the way men
keep a knife—keen to strip the game
down to her size. She has a thin spine,
swallows her eggs cold, and tells lies.
She slaps a wet rag at the truck drivers
if they should complain. She understands
the necessity for pain, turns away
the smaller tips, out of pride, and
keeps a flask under the counter. Once,
she shot a lover who misused her child.
Before she got out of jail, the courts had pounced
and given the child away. Like some isolated lake,
her flat blue eyes take care of their own stark
bottoms. Her hands are nervous, curled, ready
to scrape.
The common woman is as common
as a rattlesnake.
The Common Women Poems, III. Nadine, resting on her neighbor’s stoop
BY JUDY GRAHN
She holds things together, collects bail,
makes the landlord patch the largest holes.
At the Sunday social she would spike
every drink, and offer you half of what she knows,
which is plenty. She pokes at the ruins of the city
like an armored tank; but she thinks
of herself as a ripsaw cutting through
knots in wood. Her sentences come out
like thick pine shanks
and her big hands fill the air like smoke.
She’s a mud-chinked cabin in the slums,
sitting on the doorstep counting
rats and raising 15 children,
half of them her own. The neighborhood
would burn itself out without her;
one of these days she’ll strike the spark herself.
She’s made of grease
and metal, with a hard head
that makes the men around her seem frail.
The common woman is as common as
a nail.
I Passed Three Girls Killing a Goat
BY MIRIAM BIRD GREENBERG
I passed three girls killing a goat, shotgun
leaned up against a tree and the entrails
spilling into a coil on the ground. It was hooked
between the tendons of its back legs
to a high branch that gently creaked
like a dry hinge busybody aunties wouldn’t oil.
Blood drained into a pail, you could smell it
shifting with the air, and black flies landed
in the shadows of things where the wind
didn’t touch. I dreamed I was carrying a sack
filled with animals, and it dragged blood
in the gravel and stained my skirt hem, you could follow my trail
to the county line where old men
sat on the liquor store porch. One crooked his half-arm
for the bottle where the auger had caught his hand.
I dreamed I was in a new country rinsing livers
under a spigot, and the men cracking
black walnuts on a stone named my limbs
like the weather, like none of us knew
the same words. By the tree the girls and the goat
were faltering, one squatted to sharpen
her blackened blade on a strop, and the men
on the county line leaned back on the heels
of their chairs talking about anything, each other,
spring weather, the long-haired boy scalped
by a combine, and one of them swore you only plant
beans with the moon in Capricorn otherwise
the fields choke up with scrub juniper. One
looked intently at his left palm; his right wrist
uselessly brushed the woven seat of his chair.
When a wind came, the screen door leapt up
on its leather hinges which never creaked
and slammed shut. Mud daubers in the muck
by the spigot blew sideways around my ankles and up
under my skirt, and inside I could hear
the woman who lived with the liquor store proprietor
cursing as she locked up the vanilla like she knew
how to break the back of a ghost.
Miranda’s Drowned Book
BY DEBORA GREGER
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow. 
—The Tempest 
The only potion I saw him brew was tea 
of his own blend, a mash of leaves and bark. 
Good for whatever ailed you was his claim, 
as if he could see the leaps and falls 
he’d named “the heart.” Who knows? 
	For argument, 
just say he had no need, had made me up: 
one in his likeness, who wouldn’t touch the stuff. 
Who tried to see a window where he outlined 
in air its air of distance, ladylike, 
a pane designed to cut you off from the world 
of the dunghill and the worm. 
Who fashioned a cloak of leaves that aped his cape, 
mine only as magic as waterproof, a screen 
against the downpour day after day of sun, 
unlike the one he wrapped in and became 
no longer Father but some other, a stranger— 
the island’s only one—the local god, 
or was it merely King of Somewhere Else? 
Or mother country, I his colony? 
He held forth promise of some other isle, 
no drier but more “cultivated,” not 
just with crops but with quotation marks. 
How he held forth, dutiful silence mine to guard. 
I borrowed foreign names from the remains 
of a map that washed ashore, my own worn out 
through under-use. So, Carolina North, 
or South? Virginia West? 
As long as I 
remembered not to answer to “Miranda!”, 
the call of parent bird to fledgling ingrate, 
then I was not the heir apparent but 
your normal castaway, a little bored 
with ins and outs of tidepools’ smelly courts. 
Perhaps not world enough, but I had time 
to watch a hermit crab align himself 
and back into a vacant whelk and haul 
the home he wore from rocky A to B. 
All that watching—watching for what? A sail 
blown off its course by my uncalled-for sighs? 
A gorgeous morning, same as yesterday, 
I in the same old shirt he’d handed down, 
divining rightly that if it failed to fit, 
a scabbard’s belt would cinch it as a dress. 
To the crab’s new quarters a small limpet clung. 
What did I want to be? What did I know 
but him, the man who’d loved his subjects less 
than his library, who’d lost his kingdom, who 
couldn’t put down a book he’d yet to finish? 
How close the air remote upon that isle, 
the like of which I have not breathed again. 
How it held water, building up a wall 
by keeping molecules apart. How close 
those castles, not to be counted on except 
to rumble, then to wilt late afternoons, 
all squandered weakness. 
 	Whatever I had sensed 
about my difference I caught from him 
or from the books he carried in his head. 
Such dreams he made on me. 
I am a leaf torn loose from his drowned book. 
All men are islands, though they swear otherwise. 
All islands are alike in their unhappiness.

The Poet Goes About Her Business
BY LINDA GREGG
for Michele (1966-1972)
Michele has become another dead little girl. An easy poem.
Instant Praxitelean. Instant seventy-five year old photograph
of my grandmother when she was a young woman with shadows
I imagine were blue around her eyes. The beauty of it.
Such guarded sweetness. What a greed of bruised gardenias.
Oh Christ, whose name rips silk, I have seen raw cypresses
so dark the mind comes to them without color.
Dark on the Greek hillside. Dark, volcanic, dry and stone.
Where the oldest women of the world are standing dressed in black
up in the branches of fig trees in the gorge
knocking with as much quickness as their weakness will allow.
Weakness which my heart must not confuse with tenderness.
And on the other side of the island a woman
walks up the path with a burden of leaves on her head,
guiding the goats with sounds she makes up,
and then makes up again. The other darkness is easy:
the men in the dreams who come in together to me with knives.
There are so many traps, and many look courageous.
The body goes into such raptures of obedience.
But the huge stones on the desert resemble
nobody’s mother. I remember the snake.
After its skin had been cut away, and it was dropped
it started to move across the clearing.
Making its beautiful waving motion.
It was all meat and bone. Pretty soon it was covered with dust.
It seemed to know exactly where it wanted to go.
Toward any dark trees.
Oread
Whirl up, sea—
whirl your pointed pines,
splash your great pines
on our rocks,
hurl your green over us,
cover us with your pools of fir.
Anthem
BY SUSAN HAHN
	After the Fourth of July
On this night of the mid- 
summer festival of fire, 
where liquid explosives 
look like the arch and ache 
of the willow tree 
so near your grave, on this 
night of the awaiting mid- 
wife who lulled you in- 
to this world, the light 
all violet because the Earth and stars 
inclined toward each other, 
she also sleeps, she who was 
your first deliverer, guiding you out 
of your mother—her bluing 
skin no small sign of the future 
cyanosis of her spirit for no 
small journey was it to this 
country to bring you to birth 
in this torch 
song heat and an anthem of a free
nation's conception of combustions: 
rosins, petroleum, tallow, arsenic 
and worse, as you, too, fell from the sky 
of her body with me 
a microscopic egg inside— 
half the composition 
that made up my own 
toss and tumble to this crash 
of ground I sit over and bless 
while you lie under, under 
the willow, under this world 
that no midwife 
nor wavelength can under- 
standably reach. So I stand 
in this over- 
determined fire forced out 
like bullets upon a target— 
the pulled trigger releasing 
the hammer that strikes 
the impacted mixture— 
hailstorm and hymn 
of memories. And the outstretched womb 
involutes and the abdominal wall tightens 
and inside all abandoned encasements 
the night over the day darkens.
The Dream of a Lacquer Box
BY KIMIKO HAHN
 
I wish I knew the contents and I wish the contents
Japanese —
like hairpins made of tortoiseshell or bone
though my braid was lopped off long ago,
like an overpowering pine incense
or a talisman from a Kyoto shrine,
like a Hello Kitty diary-lock-and-key,
Hello Kitty stickers or candies,
a netsuke in the shape of an octopus,
ticket stubs from the Bunraku —
or am I wishing for Mother? searching for Sister?
just hoping to give something Japanese to my daughters?
then again, people can read anything into dreams
and I do as well. I wish I possessed
my mother’s black lacquer box
though in my dream it was red,
though I wish my heart were content.

How-To Haiku (in brief!)
	•	Haiku poems consist of 5, 7, 5 syllables in three lines.
	•	The cutting divides the haiku in two parts with a certain imaginative distance between the two sections. Line one and two should be different images. Line three brings the two images together.
	•	A haiku often contains a kigo , a season word which indicates in which season the haiku is set. For example cherry blossoms indicate spring, snow winter etc. The season word isn’t always that obvious.
	•	Try to write a haiku only about what actually happens to you.
	•	Write when you have been deeply moved.
	•	Keep it honest, simple, clear and modest.
	•	Try not to explain, it should need no explanation.
	•	Try not to express feelings in words, let the concrete action speak for itself.
(abit more in depth)
	•	Form: Traditional Japanese haiku have seventeen syllables divided into three lines of five syllables, seven syllables, and five syllables respectively. These syllable counts are often ignored when haiku are written in other languages, but the basic form of three short lines, with the middle line slightly longer than the other two, is usually observed.
	•	Structure: Haiku divide into two parts, with a break coming after the first or second line, so that the poem seems to make two separate statements that are related in some unexpected or indirect way. In Japanese, this break is marked by what haiku poets call a "cutting word." In English and other languages, the break is often marked by punctuation. This two-part structure is important to the poetic effect of a haiku, prompting a sense of discovery as one reads or a feeling of sudden insight.
	•	Language: Haiku should include what Japanese poets call a kigo -- a word that gives the reader a clue to the season being described. The kigo can be the name of a season (autumn, winter) or a subtler clue, such as a reference to the harvest or new fallen snow. Through the years, certain signs of the seasons have become conventional in Japanese haiku: cherry blossoms are a kigo for spring, mosquitoes a kigo for summer. Sometimes, too, the kigo will refer to an individual moment in the natural cycle, such as dawn or moonrise, without reference to a particular season. The kigo is also important to the haiku's effect, anchoring the experience it describes in a poetic here and now that helps sharpen the imaginative focus.
	•	Subject: Haiku present a snapshot of everyday experience, revealing an unsuspected significance in a detail of nature or human life. Haiku poets find their subject matter in the world around them, not in ancient legends or exotic fantasies. They write for a popular audience and give their audience a new way to look at things they have probably overlooked in the past.
Examples of traditional haiku

A giant firefly:
that way, this way, that way, this--
and it passes by.
--Issa (1762-1826)

Freeway overpass--
Blossoms in grafitti on
fog-wrapped June mornings
--Michael R. Collings

wrapping dumplings in
bamboo leaves, with one finger
she tidies her hair
--Bash ō (1644 - 1694)


But haiku can also be funny!

Haikus are easy
But sometimes they don’t make sense.
Refrigerator.

I see you driving
‘round town with the girl I love
and I’m like, haiku.

Thrift store trip today.
I dropped off 3 pounds of junk
And bought this treasure.

One Train’s Survival Depends on the Other Derailed
BY JAMES ALLEN HALL
				after Susan Mitchell
In a bar in Chicago like a bar in New York, the anthems hang
in the jukebox air: I Will Survive, Maybe This Time,
the bartender’s nipple ring catching the discoball’s shrapnel light,
on a night which begins in wan November, dancing
with a chestnut-haired Aries, the scorch of us hurtling like a train
I want to step in front of. He takes my hand when we leave the bar,
we walk a greasy sidewalk to a private courtyard, he kisses me
and the world goes magnolia, quick white flash back
to the garden I hid in as a boy, interred in a noiseless mangle,
the tree’s opalescent sepals masking my upturned face
as I imagine a real life GI Joe come to the rescue, smiling down
into the plot, shovel in hand. He kisses me on a night
so rinsed in purity it begs for its own ending.
The night’s begging lodged in me. We’re parallel trains
lurching forward, jaunting windows jaggedly aligned.
Don’t love the train, it craves to be emptied.
When we part, a February starfield blooming above us
in the dead of winter, he’s wiping the kiss off his lips.
Don’t miss me, he says, hailing a cab, paying the driver,
saying goodbye with a sterile hug. I miss the stars,
which had leaned in close. In November, I could die
happy, his saliva drying on my neck, the breeze
violining its song along the sloped avenue.
The song expires on the radio of an overheated car
speeding eastward into the night after the secret courtyard,
after the snow lowered its gentle hammer on the skulls
of lovers, the night I know in my sudden blood
I am going to kill myself. Don’t miss me,
the discoball moon says to the lake. Don’t miss me
says a boy to the plastic partition, the snow melting
down his face in tracks, in February, on a night
stricken at last of starlight, shocked dumb,
night with its shovel and its covering dark
SAFE SEX
BY DONALD HALL
If he and she do not know each other, and feel confident
they will not meet again; if he avoids affectionate words;
if she has grown insensible skin under skin; if they desire
only the tribute of another’s cry; if they employ each other
as revenge on old lovers or families of entitlement and steel—
then there will be no betrayals, no letters returned unread,
no frenzy, no hurled words of permanent humiliation,
no trembling days, no vomit at midnight, no repeated
apparition of a body floating face-down at the pond’s edge
The Song in the Dream
BY SASKIA HAMILTON
The song itself had hinges. The clasp on the eighteenth-century Bible  had hinges, which creaked; when you released the catch,  the book would sigh and expand.  The song was of two wholes joined by hinges,  and I was worried about the joining, the spaces in between  the joints, the weight of each side straining them.
How I Knew Harold
BY DEBORAH HARDING
Around 1981 we run into your old girlfriend on an elevator. She's wearing black leather
pants and a tank top. She asks how I like New York. We are all sweating bullets.
I want to say it sucks, but the doors open and she's gone. We miss our floor.
Around 1953 Mom tells the family she's pregnant. My brother bounces around the living
room with a pillow on his head wailing "it will change our whole lives!" This story
is recounted each year around my birthday.
Around 1978 I leave home to move in with Jack. Dad and I are standing in the driveway.
They don't want me to go. He's Jewish. Mom packs ham sandwiches and slips
me two twenties. I move back in three months.
Around 1979 my friend Sandy plays taps at a funeral gig, so I go along. I walk up to the
casket in my boots and fur jacket. I'm checking out the deceased when a woman
grabs my elbow. She wants to know how I knew Harold.
Around 1972 my sister tells me and my parents she's gay. Dad says it's unnatural and they
start arguing. I keep quiet. Mom goes into the kitchen to make sundaes.
Around 1962 my brother feels like scaring the hell out of me and chases me around the
house with a butcher knife. I hide behind Dad's suits. It smells like Old Spice.
Around 1969 I tell my parents over dinner that I'd live with a man before I'd marry him.
Dad says it's unnatural. I tell him to get his own dessert.
Around 1963 Grandma gives me ten bucks for learning the times tables.
Around 1957 Dad and I sing My Darlin' Clementine every morning on the way to school.
Around 1968 Patty Bryant and I run out on the check at Woolworth's.
Around 1964 Mom colors her hair–starts wearing eye shadow and mascara. She's
standing over a steaming sink in a pale green mohair singing "Edelweiss." She
looks absolutely radiant.



FAINT MUSIC
-Robert Hass
Maybe you need to write a poem about grace.
When everything broken is broken, 
and everything dead is dead,
and the hero has looked into the mirror with complete contempt,
and the heroine has studied her face and its defects
remorselessly, and the pain they thought might,
as a token of their earnestness, release them from themselves
has lost its novelty and not released them,
and they have begun to think, kindly and distantly,
watching the others go about their days—
likes and dislikes, reasons, habits, fears—
that self-love is the one weedy stalk
of every human blossoming, and understood,
therefore, why they had been, all their lives, 
in such a fury to defend it, and that no one—
except some almost inconceivable saint in his pool
of poverty and silence—can escape this violent, automatic
life’s companion ever, maybe then, ordinary light,
faint music under things, a hovering like grace appears.
As in the story a friend told once about the time 
he tried to kill himself. His girl had left him.
Bees in the heart, then scorpions, maggots, and then ash. 
He climbed onto the jumping girder of the bridge, 
the bay side, a blue, lucid afternoon.
And in the salt air he thought about the word “seafood,”
that there was something faintly ridiculous about it.
No one said “landfood.” He thought it was degrading to the rainbow perch
he’d reeled in gleaming from the cliffs, the black rockbass, 
scales like polished carbon, in beds of kelp
along the coast—and he realized that the reason for the word 
was crabs, or mussels, clams. Otherwise
the restaurants could just put “fish” up on their signs, 
and when he woke—he’d slept for hours, curled up 
on the girder like a child—the sun was going down
and he felt a little better, and afraid. He put on the jacket 
he’d used for a pillow, climbed over the railing 
carefully, and drove home to an empty house.
There was a pair of her lemon yellow panties
hanging on a doorknob. He studied them. Much-washed. 
A faint russet in the crotch that made him sick 
with rage and grief. He knew more or less
where she was. A flat somewhere on Russian Hill. 
They’d have just finished making love. She’d have tears 
in her eyes and touch his jawbone gratefully. “God,” 
she’d say, “you are so good for me.” Winking lights, 
a foggy view downhill toward the harbor and the bay. 
“You’re sad,” he’d say. “Yes.” “Thinking about Nick?”
“Yes,” she’d say and cry. “I tried so hard,” sobbing now,
“I really tried so hard.” And then he’d hold her for a while—
Guatemalan weavings from his fieldwork on the wall—
and then they’d fuck again, and she would cry some more, 
and go to sleep.
	And he, he would play that scene
once only, once and a half, and tell himself
that he was going to carry it for a very long time
and that there was nothing he could do
but carry it. He went out onto the porch, and listened 
to the forest in the summer dark, madrone bark
cracking and curling as the cold came up.
It’s not the story though, not the friend
leaning toward you, saying “And then I realized—,”
which is the part of stories one never quite believes. 
I had the idea that the world’s so full of pain
it must sometimes make a kind of singing.
And that the sequence helps, as much as order helps—
First an ego, and then pain, and then the singing.
Meditation at Lagunitas
BY ROBERT HASS
All the new thinking is about loss.
In this it resembles all the old thinking.
The idea, for example, that each particular erases
the luminous clarity of a general idea. That the clown-
faced woodpecker probing the dead sculpted trunk
of that black birch is, by his presence,
some tragic falling off from a first world
of undivided light. Or the other notion that,
because there is in this world no one thing
to which the bramble of blackberry corresponds,
a word is elegy to what it signifies.
We talked about it late last night and in the voice
of my friend, there was a thin wire of grief, a tone
almost querulous. After a while I understood that,
talking this way, everything dissolves: justice,
pine, hair, woman, you and I. There was a woman
I made love to and I remembered how, holding
her small shoulders in my hands sometimes,
I felt a violent wonder at her presence
like a thirst for salt, for my childhood river
with its island willows, silly music from the pleasure boat,
muddy places where we caught the little orange-silver fish
called pumpkinseed. It hardly had to do with her.
Longing, we say, because desire is full
of endless distances. I must have been the same to her.
But I remember so much, the way her hands dismantled bread,
the thing her father said that hurt her, what
she dreamed. There are moments when the body is as numinous
as words, days that are the good flesh continuing.
Such tenderness, those afternoons and evenings,
saying blackberry, blackberry, blackberry.
MISERY AND SPLENDOR
BY ROBERT HASS
Summoned by conscious recollection, she
would be smiling, they might be in a kitchen talking,
before or after dinner. But they are in this other room,
the window has many small panes, and they are on a couch
embracing. He holds her as tightly 
as he can, she buries herself in his body.
Morning, maybe it is evening, light
is flowing through the room. Outside,
the day is slowly succeeded by night,
succeeded by day. The process wobbles wildly
and accelerates: weeks, months, years. The light in the room
does not change, so it is plain what is happening.
They are trying to become one creature,
and something will not have it. They are tender
with each other, afraid
their brief, sharp cries will reconcile them to the moment
when they fall away again. So they rub against each other,
their mouths dry, then wet, then dry.
They feel themselves at the center of a powerful
and baffled will. They feel
they are an almost animal,
washed up on the shore of a world—
or huddled against the gate of a garden—
to which they can’t admit they can never be admitted.

Bone-Flower Elegy 

BY ROBERT HAYDEN
In the dream I enter the house
      wander vast rooms that are
         catacombs midnight subway
         	cavernous ruined movie-palace
         where presences in vulture masks
            play scenes of erotic violence
         	  on a scaffold stage   I want
         to stay and watch but know somehow
I must not linger and come to the funeral
           chamber   in its icy nonlight see
               a naked corpse
         	     turning with sensual movements
         	        on its coffin-bed
            I have wept for you many times
            I whisper but shrink from the arms
         	       That would embrace me
                        And treading water reach
            arched portals opening on a desert
groves of enormous nameless flowers
            twist up from firegold sand
       skull flowers flowers of sawtooth bone
           their leaves and petals interlock
         	      caging me for you beastangel
         	          raging toward me
         	 angelbeast shining come
                     	to rend me and redeem


Night, Death, Mississippi
BY ROBERT HAYDEN
I.
A quavering cry. Screech-owl?
Or one of them?
The old man in his reek
and gauntness laughs –
One of them, I bet – 
and turns out the kitchen lamp,
limping to the porch to listen
in the windowless night.
Be there with Boy and the rest
if I was well again.
Time was. Time was.
White robes like moonlight
In the sweetgum dark.
Unbucked that one then
and him squealing bloody Jesus
as we cut it off.
Time was. A cry?
A cry all right.
He hawks and spits,
fevered as by groinfire.
Have us a bottle,
Boy and me – 
he's earned him a bottle – 
when he gets home.
II.
Then we beat them, he said,
beat them till our arms was tired
and the big old chains
messy and red.
O Jesus burning on the lily cross
Christ, it was better
than hunting bear
which don't know why
you want him dead.
O night, rawhead and bloodybones night
You kids fetch Paw
some water now so's he
can wash that blood
off him, she said.
O night betrayed by darkness not its own 

Those Winter Sundays
BY ROBERT HAYDEN
 
Sundays too my father got up early
and put his clothes on in the blueblack cold,
then with cracked hands that ached
from labor in the weekday weather made
banked fires blaze. No one ever thanked him.
I’d wake and hear the cold splintering, breaking.
When the rooms were warm, he’d call,
and slowly I would rise and dress,
fearing the chronic angers of that house,
Speaking indifferently to him,
who had driven out the cold
and polished my good shoes as well.
What did I know, what did I know
of love’s austere and lonely offices?
American Sonnet for Wanda C.
BY TERRANCE HAYES
Who I know knows why all those lush-boned worn-out girls are
Whooping at where the moon should be, an eyelid clamped
On its lightness. Nobody sees her without the hoops firing in her
Ears because nobody sees. Tattooed across her chest she claims
Is BRING ME TO WHERE MY BLOOD RUNS and I want that to be here
Where I am her son, pent in blackness and turning the night's calm
Loose and letting the same blood fire through me. In her bomb hair:
Shells full of thunder; in her mouth: the fingers of some calamity,
Somebody foolish enough to love her foolishly. Those who could hear
No music weren't listening—and when I say it, it's like claiming
She's an elegy. It rhymes, because of her, with effigy. Because of her,
If there is no smoke, there is no party. I think of you, Miss Calamity,
Every Sunday. I think of you on Monday. I think of you hurling hurt
Where the moon should be and stomping into our darkness calmly.
How to Draw a Perfect Circle
BY TERRANCE HAYES
 
 
I can imitate the spheres of the model’s body, her head,
Her mouth, the chin she rests at the bend of her elbow
But nothing tells me how to make the pupils spiral
From her gaze. Everything the eye sees enters a circle,
The world is connected to a circle: breath spools from the nostrils
And any love to be open becomes an O. The shape inside the circle
Is a circle, the egg fallen outside the nest the serpent circles
Rests in the serpent’s gaze the way my gaze rests on the model.
In a blind contour drawing the eye tracks the subject
Without observing what the hand is doing. Everything is connected
By a line curling and canceling itself like the shape of a snake
Swallowing its own decadent tail or a mind that means to destroy itself,
A man circling a railway underpass before attacking a policeman.
To draw the model’s nipples I have to let myself be carried away.
I love all the parts of the body. There are as many curves
As there are jewels of matrimony, as many whirls as there are teeth
In the mouth of the future: the mute pearls a bride wears to her  wedding,
The sleeping ovaries like the heads of riders bunched in a tunnel.
The doors of the subway car imitate an O opening and closing,
In the blood the O spirals its helix of defects, genetic shadows,
But there are no instructions for identifying loved ones who go crazy.
When one morning a black man stabs a black transit cop in the face
And the cop, bleeding from his eye, kills the assailant, no one traveling
To the subway sees it quickly enough to make a camera phone  witness.
The scene must be carried on the tongue, it must be carried
On the news into the future where it will distract the eyes working
Lines into paper. This is what blind contour drawing conjures in me.
At the center of God looms an O, the devil believes justice is shaped
Like a zero, a militant helmet or war drum, a fist or gun barrel,
A barrel of ruined eggs or skulls. To lift anything from a field
The lifter bends like a broken O. The weight of the body
Lowered into a hole can make anyone say Oh: the onlookers,
The mother, the brothers and sisters. Omen begins with an O.
When I looked into my past I saw the boy I had not seen in years
Do a standing backflip so daring the onlookers called him crazy.
I did not see a moon as white as an onion but I saw a paper plate
Upon which the boy held a plastic knife and sopping meat.
An assailant is a man with history. His mother struggles
To cut an onion preparing a meal to be served after the funeral.
The onion is the best symbol of the O. Sliced, a volatile gas stings
The slicer’s eyes like a punishment clouding them until they see
What someone trapped beneath a lid of water sees:
A soft-edged world, a blur of blooms holding a coffin afloat.
The onion is pungent, its scent infects the air with sadness,
All the pallbearers smell it. The mourners watch each other,
They watch the pastor’s ambivalence, they wait for the doors to open,
They wait for the appearance of the wounded one-eyed victim
And his advocates, strangers who do not consider the assailant’s funeral
Appeasement. Before that day the officer had never fired his gun
In the line of duty. He was chatting with a cabdriver
Beneath the tracks when my cousin circled him holding a knife.
The wound caused no brain damage though his eyeball was severed.
I am not sure how a man with no eye weeps. In the Odyssey
Pink water descends the Cyclops’s cratered face after Odysseus
Drives a burning log into it. Anyone could do it. Anyone could
Begin the day with his eyes and end it blind or deceased,
Anyone could lose his mind or his vision. When I go crazy
I am afraid I will walk the streets naked, I am afraid I will shout
Every fucked up thing that troubles or enchants me, I will try to murder
Or make love to everybody before the police handcuff or murder me.
Though the bullet exits a perfect hole it does not leave perfect holes
In the body. A wound is a cell and portal. Without it the blood runs
With no outlet. It is possible to draw handcuffs using loops
Shaped like the symbol for infinity, from the Latin infinitas
Meaning unboundedness. The way you get to anything
Is context. In a blind contour it is not possible to give your subject
A disconnected gaze. Separated from the hand the artist’s eye
Begins its own journey. It could have been the same for the Cyclops,
A giant whose gouged eye socket was so large a whole onion
Could fit into it. Separated from the body the eye begins
Its own journey. The world comes full circle: the hours, the harvests,
When the part of the body that holds the soul is finally decomposed
It becomes a circle, a hole that holds everything: blemish, cell,
Womb, parts of the body no one can see. I watched the model
Pull a button loose on her jeans and step out of them
As one might out of a hole in a blue valley, a sea. I found myself
In the dark, I found myself entering her body like a delicate shell
Or soft pill, like this curved thumb of mine against her lips.
You must look without looking to make the perfect circle.
The line, the mind must be a blind continuous liquid
Until the drawing is complete.
The Golden Shovel
BY TERRANCE HAYES
after Gwendolyn Brooks
I. 1981
 
When I am so small Da’s sock covers my arm, we
cruise at twilight until we find the place the real
 
men lean, bloodshot and translucent with cool.
His smile is a gold-plated incantation as we
 
drift by women on bar stools, with nothing left
in them but approachlessness. This is a school
 
I do not know yet. But the cue sticks mean we
are rubbed by light, smooth as wood, the lurk
 
of smoke thinned to song. We won’t be out late.
Standing in the middle of the street last night we
 
watched the moonlit lawns and a neighbor strike
his son in the face. A shadow knocked straight
 
Da promised to leave me everything: the shovel we
used to bury the dog, the words he loved to sing
 
his rusted pistol, his squeaky Bible, his sin.
The boy’s sneakers were light on the road. We
 
watched him run to us looking wounded and thin.
He’d been caught lying or drinking his father’s gin.
 
He’d been defending his ma, trying to be a man. We
stood in the road, and my father talked about jazz,
 
how sometimes a tune is born of outrage. By June
the boy would be locked upstate. That night we
 
got down on our knees in my room. If I should die
before I wake. Da said to me, it will be too soon.
 
 
II. 1991
 
Into the tented city we go, we-
akened by the fire’s ethereal
 
afterglow. Born lost and cool-
er than heartache. What we
 
know is what we know. The left
hand severed and school-
 
ed by cleverness. A plate of we-
ekdays cooking. The hour lurk-
 
ing in the afterglow. A late-
night chant. Into the city we
 
go. Close your eyes and strike
a blow. Light can be straight-
 
ened by its shadow. What we
break is what we hold. A sing-
 
ular blue note. An outcry sin-
ged exiting the throat. We
 
push until we thin, thin-
king we won’t creep back again.
 
While God licks his kin, we
sing until our blood is jazz,
 
we swing from June to June.
We sweat to keep from we-
 
eping. Groomed on a die-
t of hunger, we end too soon.
The Rose Has Teeth
BY TERRANCE HAYES
I was trying to play the twelve-bar blues with two bars.
I was trying to fill the room with a shocked and awkward color.
I was trying to limber your shuffle, the muscle wired to muscle.
I wanted to be a lucid hammer. I was trying to play
like the first mechanic asked to repair the first automobile.
Once, Piano, every man-made song could fit in your mouth.
But I was trying to play Burial's "Ghost Hardware."
I was trying to play "Steam and Sequins for Larry Levan"
without the artificial bells and smoke. I was trying to play
the sound of applause by trying to play the sound of rain.
I was trying to mimic the stain on a bed, the sound
of a woman's soft, contracting bellow, the answer to who I am.
Before I trust the god who makes me rot, I trust you, Piano.
Something deathless fills your wood. Because I wanted to be
invisible, I was trying to play like a woman blacker
than an unpaid light bill, like a white boy lost in the snow.
I wanted to be a ghost because the skull is just a few holes
covered in meat. The skin has no teeth. I was trying to play
the sound of a shattered window. I was trying to play what I overheard;
the old questions, the hunger, the rattle of spines. The body
that only loves what it can touch always turns to dust.
What would a mother feel if her child sang "Sometimes I Feel
Like a Motherless Child" too beautifully? A hole has no teeth.
A bird has no teeth. But you got teeth, Piano. You make me high.
You make me dance as only a sail can dance its ragged assailable
dance. You make me believe there is good in me.
I was trying to play "California Dreaming" with Jose Feliciano's
warble. I was trying to play it the way George Benson played it
on the guitar his daddy made him at the end of the war. My lady,
she dreams of Chicago. I was trying to play "Mouhamadou Bamba"
like a band of Africans named after a tree. A tree has no teeth.
A horn has no teeth. Don't chew, Piano. Don't chew, sing to me
you fine-ass lounging harp. You fancy engine doing other people's
work. I was trying to play the sound of an empty house
because that's how I get by when the darkness in my body
starts to bleed. I was trying to play "Autumn Leaves"
because that's what my lady's falling dress sounds like to me.
Before you, Piano, I was just a rap of knuckles on the sill. I am filled
with the sound of her breathing and only you can bring it out of me.
Dear Apocalypse 
BY K.A. HAYS
Gust through— 	good. Give us 
over to the oaks, 	sway the old 
sheds, the mansions— 	shake them down 
to the meadows, 	unmake us, melt off 
what was wasted 	of our waking years— 
only know 	we’re no worse 
than former fools. 	You could have felled us 
a millennium back, 	blasted and bludgeoned— 
you’re late. 	Level us, but let it be 
put in stone 	(or penciled on plastic): 
Here lie some bodies 	 who bear no blame 
for any faults	 the future may find 
at rest in their ruins. 	Remember: we had 
a god who grumbled 	through us, gave us 
his face, held us— 	fisted, we like to feel— 
even as he ended us. 	Excuse him. 
He was, like any other man,	complicated.
 
Oysters
BY SEAMUS HEANEY 
Our shells clacked on the plates.
My tongue was a filling estuary,
My palate hung with starlight:
As I tasted the salty Pleiades
Orion dipped his foot into the water.
Alive and violated,
They lay on their beds of ice:
Bivalves: the split bulb
And philandering sigh of ocean.
Millions of them ripped and shucked and scattered.
We had driven to that coast
Through flowers and limestone
And there we were, toasting friendship,
Laying down a perfect memory
In the cool of thatch and crockery.
Over the Alps, packed deep in hay and snow,
The Romans hauled their oysters south to Rome:
I saw damp panniers disgorge
The frond-lipped, brine-stung
Glut of privilege
And was angry that my trust could not repose
In the clear light, like poetry or freedom
Leaning in from sea. I ate the day
Deliberately, that its tang
Might quicken me all into verb, pure verb.
September
BY JENNIFER MICHAEL HECHT
Tonight there must be people who are getting what they want.
I let my oars fall into the water.
Good for them. Good for them, getting what they want.
The night is so still that I forget to breathe.
The dark air is getting colder. Birds are leaving.
Tonight there are people getting just what they need.
The air is so still that it seems to stop my heart.
I remember you in a black and white photograph
taken this time of some year. You were leaning against a half-shed tree,
standing in the leaves the tree had lost.
When I finally exhale it takes forever to be over.
Tonight, there are people who are so happy,
that they have forgotten to worry about tomorrow.
Somewhere, people have entirely forgotten about tomorrow.
My hand trails in the water.
I should not have dropped those oars. Such a soft wind.
The Book of Yolek
Anthony Hecht
Wir Haben ein Gesetz, 
Und nach dem Gesetz soll er sterben.*
The dowsed coals fume and hiss after your meal 
Of grilled brook trout, and you saunter off for a walk 
Down the fern trail. It doesn't matter where to, 
Just so you're weeks and worlds away from home, 
And among midsummer hills have set up camp 
In the deep bronze glories of declining day.
You remember, peacefully, an earlier day 
In childhood, remember a quite specific meal: 
A corn roast and bonfire in summer camp. 
That summer you got lost on a Nature Walk; 
More than you dared admit, you thought of home: 
No one else knows where the mind wanders to.
The fifth of August, 1942. 
It was the morning and very hot. It was the day 
They came at dawn with rifles to The Home 
For Jewish Children, cutting short the meal 
Of bread and soup, lining them up to walk 
In close formation off to a special camp.
How often you have thought about that camp, 
As though in some strange way you were driven to, 
And about the children, and how they were made to walk, 
Yolek who had bad lungs, who wasn't a day 
Over five years old, commanded to leave his meal 
And shamble between armed guards to his long home.
We're approaching August again. It will drive home 
The regulation torments of that camp 
Yolek was sent to, his small, unfinished meal, 
The electric fences, the numeral tattoo, 
The quite extraordinary heat of the day 
They all were forced to take that terrible walk.
Whether on a silent, solitary walk 
Or among crowds, far off or safe at home, 
You will remember, helplessly, that day, 
And the smell of smoke, and the loudspeakers of the camp. 
Wherever you are, Yolek will be there, too. 
His unuttered name will interrupt your meal.
Prepare to receive him in your home some day. 
Though they killed him in the camp they sent him to, 
He will walk in as you're sitting down to a meal.

* We have a law, and according to the law he must die.
Museum Guard
BY DAVID HERNANDEZ
My condolences to the man dressed for a funeral, sitting bored on a gray folding chair, the zero  of his mouth widening in a yawn. No doubt he’s pictured himself inside a painting or two around his station,  stealing a plump green grape from the cluster hanging above the corkscrew locks of Dionysus,  or shooting arrows at rosy-cheeked cherubs hiding behind a woolly cloud. With time limping along  like a Bruegel beggar, no doubt he’s even seen himself taking the place of the one crucified: the black spike  of the minute hand piercing his left palm, the hour hand penetrating the right,  nailed forever to one spot.
How to Spend a Birthday
BY LEE HERRICK
Light a match. Watch the blue part
 	flare like a shocked piñata
	from the beating
	into the sky,
 	watch how fast thin
wood burns & turns toward the skin,
the olive-orange skin of your thumb
 
 	& let it burn, too.
Light a fire. Drown out the singing cats.
Let the drunken mariachis blaze their way,
streaking like crazed hyenas
over a brown hill, just underneath
a perfect birthday moon.
Telling
by Laura Hershey
What you risk telling your story:
You will bore them.
Your voice will break, your ink
spill and stain your coat.
No one will understand, their eyes
become fences.
You will park yourself forever
on the outside, your differentness once
and for all revealed, dangerous.
The names you give to yourself
will become epithets.
Your happiness will be called
bravery, denial.
Your sadness will justify their pity.
Your fear will magnify their fears.
Everything you say will prove something about
their god, or their economic system.
Your feelings, that change day
to day, kaleidoscopic,
will freeze in place,
brand you forever,
justify anything they decide to do
with you.
Those with power can afford
to tell their story
or not.
Those without power
risk everything to tell their story
and must.
Someone, somewhere
will hear your story and decide to fight,
to live and refuse compromise.
Someone else will tell
her own story,
risking everything.
Punk, or a mouthful of sweat glands 
By Bob Hicok
 
All you need is a guitar!
Mine is red and salivates!
That band spent a million dollars on their hair!
We use Rust-Oleum on ours!
We'll never rust in the rain!
We’re a cliff-dive of hormones and stage fright!
Sincerity should leave scars!
Our pose is more switchblade than your pose!
I miss when gods roamed among us!
Music is free!
Feedback is nourishing!
I have a plate of it every morning!
Twenty seven hundred bands played at The Anvil last night!
At the same time!
Blood clots because it's full of exclamation marks!
They slam together and form scabs!
Excitement keeps us alive!
Fuck the hegemony of chords!
You cannot borrow the safety pin through my nipple
to repair your drawers!
It's aerobic to subvert the symbols!
Let them fall!
Democracy should be amplified to fever!
I vote with my drums!
Anarchy means never having to say
"I will now read the minutes of the last meeting
of the subcommittee on housekeeping!'"
You stole my tuneless screaming!
It takes three minutes for the avant-garde
to become fashion!
Punk is dead!
Long live whatever werewolfing comes next!
 
Something always comes next!
It's in the womb right now!
Put an ear to our mothers!
Wear them like headphones!
All you need is nerve!
There are millions or nerves in the body!
Every atom of you is a Stratocaster!
Let's drink beer and think up band names!
The Irish Loogeys!
Nuns of Syphilis!
Who seriously believes garages are for cars!
See how I ignore the rules of punctuation!
Poets all want to be musicians!
Musicians all want to be musicians!
So much for the classless society!
Rage is to Eros as cunnilingus is to essential!
No one wants to be dead who has tried it!
But everyone wants to try it!
Thus all the noise!
All the soothing soothing noise!
Food
BY BRENDA HILLMAN
In a side booth at MacDonald’s before your music class
you go up and down in your seat like an arpeggio
under the poster of the talking hamburger:
two white eyes rolling around in the top bun, the thin
patty of beef imitating the tongue of its animal nature.
You eat merrily. I watch the Oakland mommies,
trying to understand what it means to be “single.”
*
Across from us, females of all ages surround the birthday girl.
Her pale lace and insufficient being
can’t keep them out of her circle.
Stripes of yellow and brown all over the place.
The poor in spirit have started to arrive,
the one with thick midwestern braids twisted like thought
on her head; usually she brings her mother.
This week, no mother. She mouths her words anyway
across the table, space-mama, time-mama,
mama who should be there.
*
Families in line: imagine all this
translated by the cry of time moving through us,
this place a rubble. The gardens new generations
will plant in this spot, and the food will go on
in another order. This thought cheers me immensely.
That we will be there together, you still seven,
bending over the crops pretending to be royalty,
that the huge woman with one blind eye
and dots like eyes all over her dress
will also be there, eating with pleasure
as she eats now, right up to the tissue paper,
peeling it back like bright exotic petals.
*
Last year, on the sun-spilled deck in Marin
we ate grapes with the Russians;
the KGB man fingered them quickly and dutifully,
then, in a sad tone to us
“We must not eat them so fast,
we wait in line so long for these,” he said.
*
The sight of food going into a woman’s mouth
made Byron sick. Food is a metaphor for existence.
When Mr. Egotistical Sublime, eating the pasta,
poked one finger into his mouth, he made a sound.
For some, the curve of the bell pepper
seems sensual but it can worry you,
the slightly greasy feel of it.
*
The place I went with your father had an apartment to the left, and in the window, twisted like a huge bowtie,
an old print bedspread. One day, when I looked over,
someone was watching us, a young girl.
The waiter had just brought the first thing:
an orange with an avocado sliced up CCCC
in an oil of forceful herbs. I couldn’t eat it.
The girl’s face stood for something
and from it, a little mindless daylight was reflected.
The businessmen at the next table
were getting off on each other and the young chardonnay.
Their briefcases leaned against their ankles.
I watched the young girl’s face because for an instant
I had seen your face there,
unterrified, unhungry, and a little disdainful.
Then the waiter brought the food,
bands of black seared into it like the memory of a cage.
*
You smile over your burger, chattering brightly.
So often, at our sunny kitchen table,
hearing the mantra of the refrigerator,
I’ve thought there was nothing I could do but feed you;
and I’ve always loved the way you eat,
you eat selfishly, humming, bending
the french fries to your will, your brown eyes
spotting everything: the tall boy
who has come in with his mother, repressed rage
in espadrilles, and now carries the tray for her.
Oh this is fun, says the mother,
You stand there with mommy’s purse.
And he stands there smiling after her,
holding all the patience in the world.
Girl Sleuth
BY BRENDA HILLMAN
A brenda is missing—where is she?
Summon the seeds & weeds, the desert whooshes. Phone the finch
with the crowded beak; a little pretenda
	is learning to read
in the afternoon near the cactus caves. Near oleander & pulpy
caves with the click-click of the wren & the shkrrrr of the thrasher,
 	a skinny pretenda is learning
to read till the missing brenda
 	is found. Drip of syllables like olives near the saguaro.
Nancy Drew will find the secret in raincoats & wednesdays
	& sticks. Nancy whose spine is yellow
	or blue will find the brenda in 1962,
 Nancy 	who has no mother,
	who takes suggestions from her father & ignores them.
 
Gleam goes the wren ignoring the thorn. They cannot tell the difference.
Click of the smart dog’s nails on linoleum.
 	Nancy bends over the clues,
of brenda’s locket & dress. Word by word
 	between syllables a clue. Where has the summer gone, the autumn—
are they missing too? Maybe Nancy
	will parse the secret & read the book report on Nancy Drew:
“neat pretty sly cute.” Syllable by syllable
	& still no brenda! Nancy
puts her hand to her forehead; is the missing
girl in the iron bird? is the clue to the girl in the locket?
Little Furnace
BY BRENDA HILLMAN
—Once more the poem woke me up, 
the dark poem. I was ready for it; 
he was sleeping, 
and across the cabin, the small furnace 
lit and re-lit itself—the flame a yellow 
“tongue” again, the metal benignly 
hard again; 
and a thousand insects outside called 
and made me nothing; 
moonlight streamed inside as if it had been ... 
I looked around, I thought of the lower wisdom, 
spirit held by matter: 
Mary, white as a sand dollar, 
and Christ, his sticky halo tilted— 
oh, to get behind it! 
The world had been created to comprehend itself 
as matter: table, the torn
veils of spiders ... Even consciousness— 
missing my love— 
was matter, the metal box of a furnace. 
As the obligated flame, so burned my life ... 
What is the meaning of this suffering I asked 
and the voice—not Christ but between us— 
said you are the meaning. 
No no, I replied, That 
is the shape, what is the meaning. 
You are the meaning, it said—
Time Problem
BY BRENDA HILLMAN
The problem
of time.	Of there not being 
enough of it.
My girl came to the study
and said Help me;
I told her I had a time problem 
which meant:
I would die for you but I don’t have ten minutes. 
Numbers hung in the math book 
like motel coathangers. The Lean 
Cuisine was burning
like an ancient city: black at the edges, 
bubbly earth tones in the center. 
The latest thing they’re saying is lack 
of time might be
a “woman’s problem.” She sat there 
with her math book sobbing—
(turned out to be prime factoring: whole numbers 
dangle in little nooses)
Hawking says if you back up far enough 
it’s not even
an issue, time falls away into
'the curve' which is finite,
boundaryless. Appointment book, 
soprano telephone—
(beep End beep went the microwave)
The hands fell off my watch in the night.
I spoke to the spirit
who took them, told her: Time is the funniest thing 
they invented. Had wakened from a big
dream of love in a boat
No time to get the watch fixed so the blank face 
lived for months in my dresser,
no arrows
for hands, just quartz intentions, just the pinocchio 
nose (before the lie)
left in the center;the watch
didn’t have twenty minutes; neither did I.
My girl was doing
her gym clothes by herself; (red leaked
toward black, then into the white
insignia)I was grading papers,
heard her call from the laundry room: 
Mama?
Hawking says there are two
types of it,
real and imaginary (imaginary time must be 
like decaf), says it’s meaningless
to decide which is which
but I say: there was tomorrow-
and-a-half
when I started thinking about it; now 
there’s less than a day. More
done. That’s
the thing that keeps being said. I thought 
I could get more done as in:
fish stew from a book. As in: Versateller 
archon, then push-push-push
the tired-tired around the track like a planet. 
Legs, remember him?
Our love—when we stagger—lies down inside us. . . 
Hawking says
there are little folds in time
(actually he calls them wormholes)
but I say:
there’s a universe beyond
where they’re hammering the brass cut-outs .. .
Push us out in the boat and leave time here— 
(because: where in the plan was it written, 
You’ll be too busy to close parentheses,
the snapdragon’s bunchy mouth needs water, 
even the caterpillar will hurry past you?
Pulled the travel alarm
to my face: the black
behind the phosphorous argument kept the dark 
from being ruined. Opened 
the art book
—saw the languorous wrists of the lady
in Tissot’s “Summer Evening.” Relaxed. Turning 
gently. The glove
(just slightly—but still:) 
“aghast”;
opened Hawking, he says, time gets smoothed 
into a fourth dimension 
but I say
space thought it up, as in: Let’s make
a baby space, and then
it missed. Were seconds born early, and why 
didn’t things unhappen also, such as
the tree became Daphne. . .
At the beginning of harvest, we felt
the seven directions.
Time did not visit us. We slept
till noon.
With one voice I called him, with one voice 
I let him sleep, remembering
summer years ago,
I had come to visit him in the house of last straws 
and when he returned
above the garden of pears, he said
our weeping caused the dew. . .
I have borrowed the little boat
and I say to him Come into the little boat, 
you were happy there;
the evening reverses itself, we’ll push out 
onto the pond,
or onto the reflection of the pond, 
whichever one is eternal
A Sweetening All Around Me As It Falls 
by Jane Hirschfield
Even generous August
only a child's scribblings
on thick black paper, in smudgeable chalk –
even the ripening tomatoes, even the roses,
blowsy, losing their fragrance of black tea.
A winter light held this morning's apples
as they fell, sweet, streaked by one touch
of the careless brush, appling to earth.
The seeds so deep inside they carry that cold.
Is this why some choose solitude, to rise
that small bit further, unencumbered by love of earth,
as the branches, lighter, kite now a little higher
on gold air? But the apples love the earth and falling,
lose themselves in it as much as they can at first touch
and then, with time and rain, at last completely:
to be that bone-like One that shines unleafed in
winter rain,
all black and glazed with not the pendant gold of
necklaced summer but the ice-color mirroring
starlight
when the earth is lonely and dark and knows nothing
of apples.
Seed-black of the paper, seed-black of the waiting
 heart—
December's shine, austere and fragile, carves the
visible tree.
But today, cut deep in last plums, in yellow pears,
in second flush of roses, in the warmth of an hour,
now late,
as drunk on heat as the girl who long ago vanished
into green trees,
fold that loneliness, one moment, two, love, back into
your arms.

Da Capo
— by Jane Hirshfield
Take the used-up heart like a pebble
and throw it far out.
Soon there is nothing left.
Soon the last ripple exhausts itself
in the weeds.
Returning home, slice carrots, onions, celery.
Glaze them in oil before adding
the lentils, water, and herbs.
Then the roasted chestnuts, a little pepper, the salt.
Finish with goat cheese and parsley. Eat.
You may do this, I tell you, it is permitted.
Begin again the story of your life.

In a Kitchen Where Mushrooms Were Washed
BY JANE HIRSHFIELD
In a kitchen where mushroom were washed,
the mushroom scent lingers.
As the sea must keep for a long time the scent of the whole.
As a person who's once loved completely,
a country once conquered,
does not release that stunned knowledge.
They must want to be found, those strange-shaped, rising morels,
clownish puffballs.
Lichens have served as a lamp wick.
Clean-burning coconuts, olives.
Dried salmon, sheep fat, a carcass of petrel set blazing:
light that is fume and abradement.
Unburnable mushrooms are other.
They darken the air they come into.
Theirs the scent of having been traveled, been taken.
America
BY TONY HOAGLAND
Then one of the students with blue hair and a tongue stud 
Says that America is for him a maximum-security prison
Whose walls are made of RadioShacks and Burger Kings, and MTV episodes 
Where you can’t tell the show from the commercials,
And as I consider how to express how full of shit I think he is, 
He says that even when he’s driving to the mall in his Isuzu
Trooper with a gang of his friends, letting rap music pour over them 
Like a boiling Jacuzzi full of ballpeen hammers, even then he feels
Buried alive, captured and suffocated in the folds 
Of the thick satin quilt of America
And I wonder if this is a legitimate category of pain, 
or whether he is just spin doctoring a better grade,
And then I remember that when I stabbed my father in the dream last night, 
It was not blood but money
That gushed out of him, bright green hundred-dollar bills 
Spilling from his wounds, and—this is the weird part—,
He gasped “Thank god—those Ben Franklins were 
Clogging up my heart—
And so I perish happily,
Freed from that which kept me from my liberty”—
Which was when I knew it was a dream, since my dad 
Would never speak in rhymed couplets,
And I look at the student with his acne and cell phone and phony ghetto clothes
And I think, “I am asleep in America too,
And I don’t know how to wake myself either,”
And I remember what Marx said near the end of his life:
“I was listening to the cries of the past,
When I should have been listening to the cries of the future.”
But how could he have imagined 100 channels of 24-hour cable
Or what kind of nightmare it might be
When each day you watch rivers of bright merchandise run past you
And you are floating in your pleasure boat upon this river
Even while others are drowning underneath you
And you see their faces twisting in the surface of the waters
And yet it seems to be your own hand
Which turns the volume higher?
You're the Top
BY TONY HOAGLAND
Of all the people that I've ever known
I think my grandmother Bernice
would be best qualified to be beside me now
driving north of Boston in a rented car
while Cole Porter warbles on the radio;
Only she would be trivial and un-
politically correct enough to totally enjoy
the rhyming of Mahatma Ghandi
with Napoleon brandy;
and she would understand, from 1948,
the miracle that once was cellophane,
which Porter rhymes with night in Spain.
She loved that image of the high gay life
where people dressed by servants
turned every night into the Ritz:
dancing through a shower of just
uncorked champagne
into the shelter of a dry martini.
When she was 70 and I was young
I hated how a life of privilege
had kept her ignorance intact
about the world beneath her pretty feet,
how she believed that people with good manners
naturally had yachts, knew how to waltz
and dribbled French into their sentences
like salad dressing. My liberal adolescent rage
was like a righteous fist back then
that wouldn't let me rest,
but I've come far enough from who I was
to see her as she saw herself:
a tipsy debutante in 1938,
kicking off a party with her shoes;
launching the lipstick-red high heel
from her elegant big toe
into the orbit of a chandelier
suspended in a lyric by Cole Porter,
bright and beautiful and useless.
MAGDALENE–THE SEVEN DEVILS
BY MARIE HOWE
“Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven devils had been cast out” —Luke 8:2.
The first was that I was very busy.
The second — I was different from you: whatever happened to you could not 
happen to me, not like that.
The third — I worried.
The fourth – envy, disguised as compassion.
The fifth was that I refused to consider the quality of life of the aphid,
The aphid disgusted me. But I couldn’t stop thinking about it.
The mosquito too – its face. And the ant – its bifurcated body.
Ok 	the first was that I was so busy.
The second that I might make the wrong choice,
because I had decided to take that plane that day,
that flight, before noon, so as to arrive early
and, I shouldn’t have wanted that.
The third was that if I walked past the certain place on the street
the house would blow up.
The fourth was that I was made of guts and blood with a thin layer of skin
lightly thrown over the whole thing.
The fifth was that the dead seemed more alive to me than the living
The sixth — if I touched my right arm I had to touch my left arm, and if I touched the left arm a little harder than I’d first touched the right then I had to retouch the left and then touch the right again so it would be even.
The seventh — I knew I was breathing the expelled breath of everything that was 
alive and I couldn’t stand it,
I wanted a sieve, a mask, a, I hate this word – cheesecloth –
to breath through that would trap it — whatever was inside everyone else that
entered me when I breathed in
No. That was the first one.
The second was that I was so busy. I had no time. How had this happened? How had our lives gotten like this?
The third was that I couldn’t eat food if I really saw it – distinct, separate from me 
in a bowl or on a plate.
Ok. The first was that I could never get to the end of the list.
The second was that the laundry was never finally done.
The third was that no one knew me, although they thought they did.
And that if people thought of me as little as I thought of them then what was
love?
The fourth was I didn’t belong to anyone. I wouldn’t allow myself to belong
to anyone.
Historians would assume my sin was sexual.
The fifth was that I knew none of us could ever know what we didn’t know.
The sixth was that I projected onto others what I myself was feeling.
The seventh was the way my mother looked when she was dying.
The sound she made — the gurgling sound — so loud we had to speak louder to hear each other over it.
And that I couldn’t stop hearing it–years later –
grocery shopping, crossing the street –
No, not the sound – it was her body’s hunger
finally evident.–what our mother had hidden all her life.
For months I dreamt of knucklebones and roots,
the slabs of sidewalk pushed up like crooked teeth by what grew underneath.
The underneath —that was the first devil. It was always with me.
And that I didn’t think you— if I told you – would understand any of this -
Memphis
BY AMORAK HUEY
You like to pretend you will meet her again someday in Knoxville, Nashville, 
Memphis.
Tennessee—state of forgiveness, of makeup sex, of uneaten ribs. O Memphis!
Drink more, hit on waitress with tattoo & pierced navel, slouch toward 
gracelessness.
Imagine there are no consequences. What fails in your fantasies stays in 
Memphis.
Any home not your own offers a chance to shed skin & slither free from what is.
Ancient city covered with slit snow, no earthen damn legible enough to protect 
Memphis.
You are so prepared to be disappointed by Graceland that you fall in love with it.
How have I failed to mention the music? That is, after all, why you come to 
Memphis.
Buy a shirt at B. B. King’s, guzzle beer on Beale Street. Hell yeah, Elvis lives.
Just another plastic anagram. Why would anywhere be different? Why Memphis?
Sun sets over this river city: the transient slap & echo of blues. Water makes the 
best witness.
If you never stand still, there’s nowhere you can’t end up. Why not Memphis?
None of us ever alls where we belong—we are ghosts on our way to someplace 
else.
This is especially true in the American South. Write me a letter from Memphis.
If you think you are happy, you need a more accurate measure. Nothing lasts. Ask 
Ramses.
Floods will always find you, water seeking other water. Even here, even Memphis.
The Thought-Fox
BY TED HUGHES
I imagine this midnight moment's forest:
Something else is alive
Beside the clock's loneliness
And this blank page where my fingers move.
Through the window I see no star:
Something more near
Though deeper within darkness
Is entering the loneliness:
Cold, delicately as the dark snow
A fox's nose touches twig, leaf;
Two eyes serve a movement, that now
And again now, and now, and now
Sets neat prints into the snow
Between trees, and warily a lame
Shadow lags by stump and in hollow
Of a body that is bold to come
Across clearings, an eye,
A widening deepening greenness,
Brilliantly, concentratedly,
Coming about its own business
Till, with a sudden sharp hot stink of fox
It enters the dark hole of the head.
The window is starless still; the clock ticks,
The page is printed.

Curse Two: The Naming
BY CYNTHIA HUNTINGTON
Katherine, Katherine, Katherine, Katherine.
Black hair, small cold eyes, whom you loved.
Cock-tease Katherine, chewer of souls.
The door blew open and she blew in, a ghoul.
Black air, small cold wind, taking everything.
Fish-eater Katherine, whose nails dig blood.
I’m going to call her pinch-cunt, pickle-lip,
piss-dribble, shit-smear, goat’s-meat breath.
I want to throw stones at her mother’s corpse,
send her children to name-change foster homes.
May the coat she is wearing burst into flames
and boil the flesh blistering off her bones.
May she be refused in both heaven and hell
and wander the earth forever without rest—
a hungry ghost clinging to the rocks and trees.
15 Ways to Leave Your Labyrinth
BY VICTOR INFANTE
 
Coat your tongue with nitroglycerin. Speak softly.
 
Book a vacation online. Request paper tickets. When the mailman arrives, follow him home.
 
Challenge the minotaur to Texas hold ‘em, but be careful. It cheats in the final hand. Above all else, don’t lose.
 
Converse with houseplants. Trust when they whisper directions to the exits. Trust they are willing to wilt for your happiness.
 
Take scissors to the Bible. Re-arrange phrases until they form a map.
 
Shrink small and befriend the ants. Their catacombs are just another maze, but the pay is better.
 
Offer the minotaur a gold ring. It fears commitment and will run.
 
The whole bread crumb thing’s played out, and string’s a mug’s game. Spray perfume at the threshold when you enter. You’ll remember freedom’s scent.
 
Surrender to childhood memories of striking matches and singed hair.
 
Redecorate. A fresh coat of paint makes an old labyrinth brand new, and the dust mites have conquered the sofa anyway.
 
Turn to television as religion.
 
Lie to your journal, creating an alternate universe where you stumble casually upon the exit. Write with enough conviction and it will become the truth. 
 
Come to an accord with the minotaur, but remain wistful and aloof at quiet moments. Don’t return its calls right away. It will long to see you smile and offer to show you the sky.
 
Chip small slices off the walls and swallow them. Soon, you, too, will become stone.
 
Remain motionless. The walls around you will become dust. Eventually.
Poem Beginning with a Line by Milosz
BY MARK IRWIN
“The most beautiful bodies are like transparent glass.”
They are bodies of the selfless or of those newly
dead. What appears transparent is really flame
burning so brightly it appears like glass. What
you’re looking through is the act of giving: One
thing in life needed desperately, given to another,
or perhaps life itself. The most beautiful bodies
are not transparent, but sometimes the color
of lead, like the elephant whom a child with some
peanuts lifts by the trunk in his hand in the swirling
dust, so that it appears he has lifted a monument
or a city with all its pain. The bodies that seem
transparent are made of an ice so pure it appears
to be glass sweating, where you, desiring another,
glimpse your own face that weighs nothing and is burning.
Early Poem
BY LUCY IVES
The first sentence is a sentence about writing. The second sentence tells you it's alright to lose interest. You might be one of those people who sits back in his or her chair without interest, and this would have been the third sentence you would have read. The fourth sentence, what does that say, that says something about how I genuinely feel, even if it no longer matters how I genuinely feel, that has not even become the topic of another book. The fifth sentence says that that was left by the wayside because it was such a variable thing. That's what the sixth sentence said, and says, that it sits there still, varying, changing its colors, etc., the army of ancient Rome marches by, they think it is some sort of tomb and display their eagle insignia. The seventh sentence ill conceals its surprise that I should have tried to make it all look so far away. The eight sentence is therefore a meditation on something close at hand. The ninth sentence is a means of approach. In the tenth sentence I discover I am staring at a list of things I have done written in blue pencil on brown paper. In the eleventh sentence I draw a one-eyed duck on the paper beside the list. In the twelfth sentence I circle one of the numbers on the list and I start to feel nervous. In the thirteenth sentence I realize I have chosen something. In the fourteenth sentence I decide I will read my choice aloud. In the fifteenth sentence I stall by saying the words "I don't have a choice." In the sixteenth sentence I stall again by thinking about the obelisk on the Upper East Side in Central Park and how it is called "Cleopatra's Needle," and how around the base of the "needle" there are metal supports in the shape of crustaceans, I think they are crabs in fact but sometimes that word is slightly obscene so I consider not writing it. In the seventeenth sentence I think some more about the kinds of joke that employ that word and whether it is worth thinking about such jokes, as it does alter the genre of what you are writing if such things are allowed to be thought as a part of it. The lawns of the park were very green in summer, and it is early summer right now, right as I think to think this, and this is the first time I have lived in New York City for a full year in ten years, this is what I tell as the nineteenth sentence. In the twentieth sentence I recall the list and resolve again to look at it. In the twentifirst sentence I misspell twenty-first with two "i"s. In the twenty-second sentence I look down at the list, I have circled no. 18759351 on the list. In the twentisecond sentence I misspell twenty-second using an "i" again. In the twenty-third sentence I read what is written next to no. 18759351, it says, "He was sitting on a bench...," but at this moment a breeze enters in through the open window, lifting the page and you begin reading another line, the words, "And you hand in the application and it takes three months and...." In the twenty-fourth sentence you can see me set the page down as another person walks through the door. I turn off the electronic typewriter and scroll out the page and place it facedown on the desk and I cover it with a notebook you weren't aware was also there on the desk. Now you can see it, it is almost the exact same color as the surface of the desk and now you can see it. These were the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth sentences, respectively, it is the lot of the twenty-seventh sentence to have to announce that. In the twenty-eighth sentence a cloud passes over the apartment on its way into space. In the twenty-ninth sentence, I think, next year this will be the number of my age. The thirtieth sentence is all about the speed at which time is passing. In the thirty-first sentence I won't care anymore, I'll see that reality only accrues to itself and does not have to mean something. In the thirty-second sentence I want you to agree with me. Things happen by chance, and what Montaigne pleads with us to believe, in an essay, is that fortune makes herself known in the act of reading, there is much that I could not have intended which is yet here, I forget exactly how this goes, this being the thirty-third sentence. I sit down beside myself in the thirty-fourth sentence and say to myself, smiling, even small numbers are big. This is the working of time, the thirty-fifth sentence joins in saying this, too, once one has crossed the years their number does not matter. But what I was trying to get across was, I think in sentence thirty-six, that maybe you could not have done things earlier, maybe it just was not possible in those days for whichever reasons. You spend the thirty-seventh sentence attempting to spell those reasons out. You fall asleep, and in the thirty-eighth sentence you dream about a room. The room is a classroom in which you are alone, says sentence number thirty-nine, the windows have been left open and a sentence can be read on the blackboard. In the fortieth sentence you have to force yourself to go on. Descartes's dream, you remember, in sentence forty-one, provided a quote supposedly from Ausonius. This is the forty-second sentence, Est et non. Then I think it is safe to say that something begins to happen, sentence forty-three tells us. Sentence forty-four says that you should forgive. Sentence forty-five says that you remember this number as having been particularly beautiful when worn by your mother. Sentence forty-six says the figures move away. Sentence forty-seven is a sentence about what loneliness names itself in the paradoxical presence of others. Sentence forty-eight says it has a name. Sentence forty-nine says that I cannot remember this name. Sentence fifty says that I go back and try and live there in that moment when I was saying the name. I say, "Happiness." This was sentence fifty-one. That was sentence fifty-two. Sentence fifty-four is a sentence about how there is too much of so many things, there is too much of all the words, but the world runs on underneath them and I keep on imagining how you could have heard me, how you could not have heard me. Sentence fifty-five is a sentence about picking up the phone. Sentence fifty-six is a sentence about picking up a small cellular phone but not using it and willing the phone to ring on its own. The gray cotton of the sweatshirt I wear is a warm cotton in sentence fifty-seven. In sentence fifty-eight I decide to keep on saying the numbers. In sentence fifty-nine I hold the page up to the light and see the type on the other side show through, In sentence sixty you start to believe me. In sentence sixty-one I start to go back to the beginning. I wonder if I should worry. The world is full of pauses, the world is full with continuations, says sentence sixty-three. I let sentence sixty-four go. In sentence sixty-five it occurs to me that I concern myself here with something that ought not to be touched. Sentence sixty-six is a guess that this is the mystery of counting, that it goes on and means itself without having a meaning. I count the people in the distance I can see from my window in sentence sixty-seven. In sentence sixty-eight the breeze has a sweet smell. In sentence sixty-nine, it turns the last week of May in the year 2008. Sentence seventy concerns the lack of what I wanted, in my own mind, to be saying. In sentence seventy-one I'm going so far as to ask you if you can see this, how much of what I thought lay before me remained in the distance. In sentence seventy-two there is a hill there. In sentence seventy-three we see flowers open their faces and then black snakes slide down the face of the hill. In sentence seventy-four there is still nothing. In sentence seventy-five the moon changes place with the sun. In sentence seventy-six this takes place again, only now it is day. In sentence seventy-seven it is still day. In sentence seventy-eight it is still day. Why do you think about tragedy, sentence seventy-nine wants to know, since it is the least likely thing to happen. Sentence eighty will eventually come to me and want to know what I am doing with myself. Sentence eighty-one reminds me to expect this question. In sentence eighty-two something changes. I stay up two nights running and in the morning the sidewalk seems to rise up and meet my feet underneath my feet. Sentence eighty-four contains the question, didn't you already know that this would start to happen. Sentence eighty-five agrees. When I start to read sentence eighty-six I discover it contains the words, It is also true that what you said could be. For this reason, sentence eighty-seven is a sentence about why there are certainly points of correspondence between what we expect to be the case and what is. Sentence eighty-eight proclaims it feels the excitement and not the work. Sentence eighty-nine takes action without saying anything first. In sentence ninety I cover my eyes. In sentence ninety-one I uncover my eyes so that I can look again. In sentence ninety-two I cover them again. Now I am speaking to you. Now I am speaking to you. Say the words after me just as I say them. What it means to live is the subject of sentence ninety-six. You are moving out of earshot now. We are not going to miss each other. You have an excellent memory. Please never forget I was the one who told you that
Mighty Pawns
BY MAJOR JACKSON
If I told you Earl, the toughest kid
on my block in North Philadelphia,
bow-legged and ominous, could beat
any man or woman in ten moves playing white,
or that he traveled to Yugoslavia to frustrate the bearded
masters at the Belgrade Chess Association,
you'd think I was given to hyperbole,
and if, at dinnertime, I took you
into the faint light of his Section 8 home
reeking of onions, liver, and gravy,
his six little brothers fighting on a broken love-seat
for room in front of a cracked flat-screen,
one whose diaper sags it's a wonder
it hasn't fallen to his ankles,
the walls behind doors exposing the sheetrock
the perfect O of a handle, and the slats
of stairs missing where Baby-boy gets stuck
trying to ascend to a dominion foreign to you and me
with its loud timbales and drums blasting down
from the closed room of his cousin whose mother
stands on a corner on the other side of town
all times of day and night, except when her relief
check arrives at the beginning of the month,
you'd get a better picture of Earl's ferocity
after-school on the board in Mr. Sherman's class,
but not necessarily when he stands near you
at a downtown bus-stop in a jacket a size too
small, hunching his shoulders around his ears,
as you imagine the checkered squares of his poverty
and anger, and pray he does not turn his precise gaze 
too long in your direction for fear he blames
you and proceeds to take your Queen.
Tremble
BY MAJOR JACKSON
My neighbor is velvety and kicks serious game.
So sweet garlic refuses to hang tight
in his mouth. He pulls women to his wide chest
each time as if he's won the Lotto. He rocks
them gently and gentler. My neighbor
is a master spooner. He knows not of desire, but only
the rules of engagement. He says, I miss
having Skype on all night so I can listen
to your breathing. He floats in his museum,
of gams, drifting from frame to frame.
Ground Swell
BY MARK JARMAN
Is nothing real but when I was fifteen, Going on sixteen, like a corny song? I see myself so clearly then, and painfully-- Knees bleeding through my usher’s uniform Behind the candy counter in the theater After a morning’s surfing; paddling frantically To top the brisk outsiders coming to wreck me, Trundle me clumsily along the beach floor’s Gravel and sand; my knees aching with salt. Is that all I have to write about? You write about the life that’s vividest. And if that is your own, that is your subject. And if the years before and after sixteen Are colorless as salt and taste like sand-- Return to those remembered chilly mornings, The light spreading like a great skin on the water, And the blue water scalloped with wind-ridges, And--what was it exactly?--that slow waiting When, to invigorate yourself, you peed Inside your bathing suit and felt the warmth Crawl all around your hips and thighs, And the first set rolled in and the water level Rose in expectancy, and the sun struck The water surface like a brassy palm, Flat and gonglike, and the wave face formed. Yes. But that was a summer so removed In time, so specially peculiar to my life, Why would I want to write about it again? There was a day or two when, paddling out, An older boy who had just graduated And grown a great blonde moustache, like a walrus, Skimmed past me like a smooth machine on the water, And said my name. I was so much younger, To be identified by one like him-- The easy deference of a kind of god Who also went to church where I did--made me Reconsider my worth. I had been noticed. He soon was a small figure crossing waves, The shawling crest surrounding him with spray, Whiter than gull feathers. He had said my name Without scorn, just with a bit of surprise To notice me among those trying the big waves Of the morning break. His name is carved now On the black wall in Washington, the frozen wave That grievers cross to find a name or names. I knew him as I say I knew him, then, Which wasn’t very well. My father preached His funeral. He came home in a bag That may have mixed in pieces of his squad. Yes, I can write about a lot of things Besides the summer that I turned sixteen. But that’s my ground swell. I must start Where things began to happen and I knew it.
Poem Beginning with a Line by Frank Lima
BY LISA JARNOT 
 
And how terrific it is to write a radio poem
and how terrific it is to stand on the roof and
watch the stars go by and how terrific it is to be
misled inside a hallway, and how terrific it is
to be the hallway as it stands inside the house,
and how terrific it is, shaped like a telephone,
to be filled with scotch and stand out on the street,
and how terrific it is to see the stars inside the radios
and cows, and how terrific the cows are, crossing
at night, in their unjaundiced way and moving
through the moonlight, and how terrific the night is,
purveyor of the bells and distant planets, and how
terrific it is to write this poem as I sleep, to sleep
in distant planets in my mind and cross at night the
cows in hallways riding stars to radios at night, and
how terrific night you are, across the bridges, into
tunnels, into bars, and how terrific it is that you are
this too, the fields of planetary pull, terrific, living
on the Hudson, inside the months of spring, an
underwater crossing for the cows in dreams, terrific,
like the radios, the songs, the poem and the stars.
The Knight, Death, and the Devil
By Randall Jarrell
Cowhorn-crowned, shockheaded, cornshuck-bearded,
Death is a scarecrow -- his death's-head a teetotum
That tilts up toward man confidentially
But trimmed with adders; ringlet-maned, rope-bridled,
The mare he rides crops herbs beside a skull.
He holds up, warning, the crossed cones of time:
Here, narrowing into now, the Past and Future
Are quicksand.
A hoofed pikeman trots behind.
His pike's claw-hammer mocks -- in duplicate, inverted --
The pocked, ribbed, soaring crescent of his horn.
A scapegoat aged into a steer; boar-snouted;
His great limp ears stuck sidelong out in air;
A dewlap bunched at his breast; a ram's-horn wound
Beneath each ear; a spur licked up and out
From the hide of his forehead; bat-wingerd, but in bone;
His eye a ring inside a ring inside a ring
That leers up, joyless, vile, in meek obscenity --
This is the devil. flesh to flesh, he bleats
The herd back to the pit of being.
In fluted mail; upon his lance the bush
Of that old fox; a sheep-dog bounding at his stirrup,
In its eyes the cast of faithfulness (our help,
Our foolish help); his dun war-horse pacing
Beneath in strength, in ceremonious magnificence;
His castle -- some man's castle -- set on every crag:
S, companioned so, the knight moves through this world.
The fiend moos in amity, Death mouths, reminding:
He listens in assurance, has no glance
To spare for them, but looks past steadily
At -- at --
a man's look completes itself.

The death of his own flesh, set up outside him;
The flesh of his own soul, set up outside him --
Death and the devil, what are these to him?
His being accuses him -- and yet his face is firm
In resolution, in absolute persistence;
The folds of smiling do for steadiness;
The face is its own fate -- a man does what he must --
And the body underneath it says: I am.

Fawn's Foster-Mother
BY ROBINSON JEFFERS 
The old woman sits on a bench before the door and quarrels
With her meagre pale demoralized daughter.
Once when I passed I found her alone, laughing in the sun
And saying that when she was first married
She lived in the old farmhouse up Garapatas Canyon.
(It is empty now, the roof has fallen
But the log walls hang on the stone foundation; the redwoods
Have all been cut down, the oaks are standing;
The place is now more solitary than ever before.)
"When I was nursing my second baby
My husband found a day-old fawn hid in a fern-brake
And brought it; I put its mouth to the breast
Rather than let it starve, I had milk enough for three babies.
Hey how it sucked, the little nuzzler,
Digging its little hoofs like quills into my stomach.
I had more joy from that than from the others."
Her face is deformed with age, furrowed like a bad road
With market-wagons, mean cares and decay.
She is thrown up to the surface of things, a cell of dry skin
Soon to be shed from the earth's old eye-brows,
I see that once in her spring she lived in the streaming arteries,
The stir of the world, the music of the mountain.
Heat
BY DENIS JOHNSON
Here in the electric dusk your naked lover tips the glass high and the ice cubes fall against her teeth. It’s beautiful Susan, her hair sticky with gin, Our Lady of Wet Glass-Rings on the Album Cover, streaming with hatred in the heat as the record falls and the snake-band chords begin to break like terrible news from the Rolling Stones, and such a last light—full of spheres and zones. August,  you’re just an erotic hallucination, just so much feverishly produced kazoo music, are you serious?—this large oven impersonating night, this exhaustion mutilated to resemble passion, the bogus moon of tenderness and magic you hold out to each prisoner like a cup of light?
Gay Marriage Poem
by Jenny Johnson
We could promise to elope
like my grandmother did
if a football team won
on homecoming night.
We could be good queers?
An oxymoron we never
longed for. We could
become wed-locked
as the suffix was once intended:
laiko, Common Teutonic for play,
not loc, Old English for a cave,
an enclosure. Instead
of a suit, I could wear my T-shirt
that avows, “Support Your Right
to Arm Bears!” Or we could
wed in bear suits
just as I saw people do
one summer in San Francisco
standing amid a grassy median
during rush hour.
They were so personally
anonymously political
blocking the ocean breeze
in acrylic fur.
Forget such solemnities!
I want to run through streets
shouting up to all my beloveds’ windows:
Friends! In sickness and in health 
I refuse to forsake you!
on Charlotte Street, Home,
Euclid, Decatur, Union,
Straubs, Rebecca, Bennett Ave.,
38th, Woolslayer Way.
In the only wedding I was a part of
I was the flower girl
who held up the ceremony
kneeling to drop equal dividends of
petals beside every pew,
refusing to leave anyone out.
Let us speak without occasion
of relations of our choosing!
Tied intricately
as the warps and wefts
amid mats of moss,
without competing for sunlight
our hairy caps are forever
lodging in spaces
that myopic travelers can’t see.
Of such loves unwrit, at the boundary layer
between earth and air,
I feel most clear.
In the Dream
by Jenny Johnson
I was alone in a dyke bar we’d traversed before
or maybe it was in a way all our dives
merging together suddenly as one intergalactic composite,
one glitter-spritzed black hole,
one cue stick burnished down to a soft blue nub.
Picture an open cluster of stars
managing to forever stabilize in space
without a landlord scheming to shut the place down.
Anyways, I was searching for someone there
whom we hadn’t seen in years—in what
could have been Sisters, Babes, the Lex, the Pint,
the Palms, or the E Room? but the room
had no end and no ceiling.
Though I could see all of our friends or exes
with elbows up or fingers interlocked
on table tops zinging with boomerangs.
Maybe the tables were spinning, too. I can’t be sure.
But just as a trap that trips before
hammering a mouse is not humane
the dream changed—or the alarm
that I carry in my breast pocket in my waking life
was sounding. Because in the dream,
three people on bar stools, who were straight
or closeted? but more importantly angry
turned and the room dwindled
like a sweater full of moths eating holes
through wool. Or they were humans, sure,
but not here to love
with jawlines set to throw epithets like darts
that might stick or knick or flutter past
as erratically as they were fired. 
You could say their hostility was a swirl
nebulous as gas and dust,
diffuse as the stress
a body meticulously stores.
Like how when I was shoved in grade school
on the blacktop in my boy jeans
the teacher asked me if I had a strawberry
because the wound was fresh as jam, glistening
like pulp does after the skin of a fruit is
peeled back clean with a knife.
I was in the dream as open to the elements,
yet I fired back. And I didn’t care who eyed me
like warped metal to be pounded square.
I said: Do you realize where you are?
And with one finger I called our family forth
and out of the strobe lights, they came.
Summoning the Body That Is Mine When I Shut My Eyes
by Jenny Johnson
Come second heartbeat sounding in the breast
Come prismatic light dissembling
Come familiar spiritCome bare-chested in the weeds
Come private imposterCome hidden ballast
Come sudden departuresCome stress without shape
Because belief is oddCome swaggering answer
Come invisible inkCome beatific scrawl
Come as squirrels are climbing backwards
Come as dogwood blossoms come apart
Come strumming an unspeakable power ballad
Through a torrent of rain with cheeks flushed scarlet
Come down the rusty metal slide
Come belted kingfisher flapping
Come lavender asters wheeling
Come loose, a sapling lengthening
Come honeysuckleCome glistening
Poem about My Rights
BY JUNE JORDAN
Even tonight and I need to take a walk and clear 
my head about this poem about why I can’t 
go out without changing my clothes my shoes 
my body posture my gender identity my age 
my status as a woman alone in the evening/ 
alone on the streets/alone not being the point/ 
the point being that I can’t do what I want 
to do with my own body because I am the wrong 
sex the wrong age the wrong skin and 
suppose it was not here in the city but down on the beach/ 
or far into the woods and I wanted to go 
there by myself thinking about God/or thinking 
about children or thinking about the world/all of it 
disclosed by the stars and the silence: 
I could not go and I could not think and I could not 
stay there 
alone 
as I need to be 
alone because I can’t do what I want to do with my own 
body and 
who in the hell set things up 
like this 
and in France they say if the guy penetrates 
but does not ejaculate then he did not rape me 
and if after stabbing him if after screams if 
after begging the bastard and if even after smashing 
a hammer to his head if even after that if he 
and his buddies fuck me after that 
then I consented and there was 
no rape because finally you understand finally 
they fucked me over because I was wrong I was 
wrong again to be me being me where I was/wrong 
to be who I am 
which is exactly like South Africa 
penetrating into Namibia penetrating into 
Angola and does that mean I mean how do you know if 
Pretoria ejaculates what will the evidence look like the 
proof of the monster jackboot ejaculation on Blackland 
and if 
after Namibia and if after Angola and if after Zimbabwe 
and if after all of my kinsmen and women resist even to 
self-immolation of the villages and if after that 
we lose nevertheless what will the big boys say will they 
claim my consent: 
Do You Follow Me: We are the wrong people of 
the wrong skin on the wrong continent and what 
in the hell is everybody being reasonable about 
and according to the Times this week 
back in 1966 the C.I.A. decided that they had this problem 
and the problem was a man named Nkrumah so they 
killed him and before that it was Patrice Lumumba 
and before that it was my father on the campus 
of my Ivy League school and my father afraid 
to walk into the cafeteria because he said he 
was wrong the wrong age the wrong skin the wrong 
gender identity and he was paying my tuition and 
before that 
it was my father saying I was wrong saying that 
I should have been a boy because he wanted one/a 
boy and that I should have been lighter skinned and 
that I should have had straighter hair and that 
I should not be so boy crazy but instead I should 
just be one/a boy and before that
it was my mother pleading plastic surgery for 
my nose and braces for my teeth and telling me 
to let the books loose to let them loose in other 
words 
I am very familiar with the problems of the C.I.A. 
and the problems of South Africa and the problems 
of Exxon Corporation and the problems of white 
America in general and the problems of the teachers 
and the preachers and the F.B.I. and the social 
workers and my particular Mom and Dad/I am very 
familiar with the problems because the problems 
turn out to be 
me 
I am the history of rape 
I am the history of the rejection of who I am 
I am the history of the terrorized incarceration of 
myself 
I am the history of battery assault and limitless 
armies against whatever I want to do with my mind 
and my body and my soul and 
whether it’s about walking out at night 
or whether it’s about the love that I feel or 
whether it’s about the sanctity of my vagina or 
the sanctity of my national boundaries 
or the sanctity of my leaders or the sanctity 
of each and every desire 
that I know from my personal and idiosyncratic 
and indisputably single and singular heart 
I have been raped 
be- 
cause I have been wrong the wrong sex the wrong age 
the wrong skin the wrong nose the wrong hair the 
wrong need the wrong dream the wrong geographic 
the wrong sartorial I 
I have been the meaning of rape 
I have been the problem everyone seeks to 
eliminate by forced 
penetration with or without the evidence of slime and/ 
but let this be unmistakable this poem 
is not consent I do not consent 
to my mother to my father to the teachers to 
the F.B.I. to South Africa to Bedford-Stuy 
to Park Avenue to American Airlines to the hardon 
idlers on the corners to the sneaky creeps in 
cars 
I am not wrong: Wrong is not my name 
My name is my own my own my own 
and I can’t tell you who the hell set things up like this 
but I can tell you that from now on my resistance 
my simple and daily and nightly self-determination 
may very well cost you your life
Poem [“This poem is not addressed to you”] BY DONALD JUSTICE 
This poem is not addressed to you. You may come into it briefly, But no one will find you here, no one. You will have changed before the poem will.  Even while you sit there, unmovable, You have begun to vanish. And it does not matter. The poem will go on without you. It has the spurious glamor of certain voids.  It is not sad, really, only empty. Once perhaps it was sad, no one knows why. It prefers to remember nothing. Nostalgias were peeled from it long ago.  Your type of beauty has no place here. Night is the sky over this poem. It is too black for stars. And do not look for any illumination.  You neither can nor should understand what it means. Listen, it comes without guitar, Neither in rags nor any purple fashion. And there is nothing in it to comfort you.  Close your eyes, yawn. It will be over soon. You will forget the poem, but not before It has forgotten you. And it does not matter. It has been most beautiful in its erasures.  O bleached mirrors! Oceans of the drowned! Nor is one silence equal to another. And it does not matter what you think. This poem is not addressed to you.
sweet reader, flanneled and tulled
BY OLENA KALYTIAK DAVIS
Reader unmov’d and Reader unshaken, Reader unseduc’d 
and unterrified, through the long-loud and the sweet-still 
I creep toward you. Toward you, I thistle and I climb.
I crawl, Reader, servile and cervine, through this blank 
season, counting—I sleep and I sleep. I sleep,
Reader, toward you, loud as a cloud and deaf, Reader, deaf
as a leaf. Reader: Why don’t you turn
pale? and, Why don’t you tremble? Jaded, staid 
Reader, You—who can read this and not even
flinch. Bare-faced, flint-hearted, recoilless 
Reader, dare you—Rare Reader, listen 
and be convinced: Soon, Reader,
soon you will leave me, for an italian mistress: 
for her dark hair, and her moon-lit 
teeth. For her leopardi and her cavalcanti,
for her lips and clavicles; for what you want 
to eat, eat, eat. Art-lover, rector, docent! 
Do I smile? I, too, once had a brash artless
feeder: his eye set firm on my slackening
sky. He was true! He was thief! In the celestial sense 
he provided some, some, some
(much-needed) relief. Reader much-slept with, and Reader I will die
without touching, You, Reader, You: mr. small-
weed, mr. broad-cloth, mr. long-dark-day. And the italian mis-
fortune you will heave me for, for
her dark hair and her moonlit-teeth. You will love her well in-
to three-or-four cities, and then, you will slowly
sink. Reader, I will never forgive you, but not, poor 
cock-sure Reader, not, for what you think. O, Reader 
Sweet! and Reader Strange! Reader Deaf and Reader
Dear, I understand youyourself may be hard-
pressed to bare this small and un-necessary burden 
having only just recently gotten over the clean clean heart-
break of spring. And I, Reader, I am but the daughter 
of a tinker. I am not above the use of bucktail spinners, 
white grubs, minnow tails. Reader, worms
and sinkers. Thisandthese curtail me 
to be brief: Reader, our sex gone
to wildweather. YesReaderYes—that feels much-much
better. (And my new Reader will come to me empty-
handed, with a countenance that roses, lavenders, and cakes. 
And my new Reader will be only mildly disappointed.
My new Reader can wait, can wait, can wait.) Light-
minded, snow-blind, nervous, Reader, Reader, troubled, Reader,
what’d ye lack? Importunate, unfortunate, Reader:
You are cold. You are sick. You are silly.
Forgive me, kind Reader, forgive me, I had not intended to step this quickly this far
back. Reader, we had a quiet wedding: he&I, theparson
&theclerk. Would I could, stead-fast, gracilefacile Reader! Last, 
good Reader, tarry with me, jessa-mine Reader. Dar-
(jee)ling, bide! Bide, Reader, tired, and stay, stay, stray Reader,
true. R.: I had been secretly hoping this would turn into a love
poem. Disconsolate. Illiterate. Reader, 
I have cleared this space for you, for you, for you.
Your TV Lit You Like a Roman Candle
-Olena Kalytiak Davis 
that's not spring exploding 
that's just the preacher's fat wife abloom 
in a house dress covered in daisies and thick 
weeds, her stout calves bare, sprouting 
from the stumps of her ankle high boots 
those aren't the sparks of fireworks 
that isn't fireweed 
that's just someone thawing 
somebody else's life with a blowtorch 
that's just the sun shortcircuiting the thin wiring of the trees 
setting the night flaring 
and the neighbor's house 
spilling out its windows 
the tv burning, turning the snow blue 
lighting the old stove on the porch, licking 
the burst brown recliner 
into cerulean flame 
you have turned the sound way way down 
you have waited all winter 
for someone to come out and lean back 
into this life, face the detonating 
sky 



Excuse Me, Which Way is Varick Street?
BY JOY KATZ
Varick, yes. Just – oh, Film Forum, sure. Go straight down Carmine and turn left. Wait, did I say turn onto Houston after Varick? Actually, I'm walking that way. You're welcome. Actually, you can turn here, before Varick: this street dead ends at Film Forum. In fact, I'm going to Film Forum. Would you like me to carry you? I was going to carry something anyway. Did I say to walk through the air molecules on the southwest corner of – ? Let's count forty blocks of sidewalk. No, wait, thirty-seven paving stones to the corner. The ticket window is there on the south side of Houston. Coincidentally, I'm also going to see the Tarkovsky. I am ploughing and harrowing my soul, tendering it capable of turning to good. Two, please. I was going to buy two tickets anyway, my pleasure. The brownies here are delicious. In fact, I'm going to get one. Here, let me feed it to you. I am good for you. I am good also for lost Japanese women, for the boys in Big Brothers Big Sisters (I am always seated next to them at weddings), for the aggrieved, the grieving, the recently blind -  are you going to sit there? Coincidentally, I am also going to sit there. Can you see out my eyeholes? Are you comfortable?

CAMH (On Sight)
BY DOUGLAS KEARNEY
Every Hard Rapper’s Father Ever: Father of the Year
BY DOUGLAS KEARNEY
That Loud-Assed Colored Silence: Modernity #2 
BY DOUGLAS KEARNEY 
Ode on a Grecian Urn
JOHN KEATS
Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness,  Thou foster-child of Silence and slow Time, Sylvan historian, who canst thus express  A flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme: What leaf-fringed legend haunts about thy shape  Of deities or mortals, or of both, In Tempe or the dales of Arcady? What men or gods are these? what maidens loth?  What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape?  What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy?   Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard  Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on; Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear’d,  Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone: Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave  Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare; Bold lover, never, never canst thou kiss,  Though winning near the goal--yet, do not grieve; She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,  For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!  Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shed  Your leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu; And, happy melodist, unwearied, For ever piping songs for ever new; More happy love! more happy, happy love!  For ever warm and still to be enjoy’d, For ever panting, and for ever young;  All breathing human passion far above, That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloy’d,  A burning forehead, and a parching tongue.  Who are these coming to the sacrifice?  To what green altar, O mysterious priest, Lead’st thou that heifer lowing at the skies,  And all her silken flanks with garlands drest? What little town by river or sea shore,  Or mountain-built with peaceful citadel, Is emptied of this folk, this pious morn?  And, little town, thy streets for evermore Will silent be; and not a soul to tell  Why thou art desolate, can e’er return.  O Attic shape! Fair attitude! with brede  Of marble men and maidens overwrought, With forest branches and the trodden weed;  Thou, silent form, dost tease us out of thought As doth eternity: Cold pastoral! When old age shall this generation waste,  Thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe Than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say’st, ‘Beauty is truth, truth beauty’--that is all  Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.

Ode to a Nightingale
-John Keats

My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains 
	My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk, 
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains 
	One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk: 
'Tis not through envy of thy happy lot, 
	But being too happy in thine happiness, - 
	That thou, light-winged Dryad of the trees, 
	In some melodious plot 
	Of beechen green and shadows numberless, 
	Singest of summer in full-throated ease.
O, for a draught of vintage! that hath been 
	Cool'd a long age in the deep-delved earth, 
Tasting of Flora and the country green, 
	Dance, and Provençal song, and sunburnt mirth! 
O for a beaker full of the warm South, 
	Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene, 
	With beaded bubbles winking at the brim, 
	And purple-stained mouth; 
	That I might drink, and leave the world unseen, 
	And with thee fade away into the forest dim:
Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget 
	What thou among the leaves hast never known, 
The weariness, the fever, and the fret 
	Here, where men sit and hear each other groan; 
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs, 
	Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and dies; 
	Where but to think is to be full of sorrow 
	And leaden-eyed despairs, 
	Where Beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes, 
	Or new Love pine at them beyond to-morrow.
Away! away! for I will fly to thee, 
	Not charioted by Bacchus and his pards, 
But on the viewless wings of Poesy, 
	Though the dull brain perplexes and retards: 
Already with thee! tender is the night, 
	And haply the Queen-Moon is on her throne, 
	Cluster'd around by all her starry Fays; 
	But here there is no light, 
	Save what from heaven is with the breezes blown 
	Through verdurous glooms and winding mossy ways.
I cannot see what flowers are at my feet, 
	Nor what soft incense hangs upon the boughs, 
But, in embalmed darkness, guess each sweet 
	Wherewith the seasonable month endows 
The grass, the thicket, and the fruit-tree wild; 
	White hawthorn, and the pastoral eglantine; 
	Fast fading violets cover'd up in leaves; 
	And mid-May's eldest child, 
	The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine, 
	The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves.
Darkling I listen; and, for many a time 
	I have been half in love with easeful Death, 
Call'd him soft names in many a mused rhyme, 
	To take into the air my quiet breath; 
Now more than ever seems it rich to die, 
	To cease upon the midnight with no pain, 
	While thou art pouring forth thy soul abroad 
	In such an ecstasy! 
	Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain - 
	To thy high requiem become a sod.
Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird! 
	No hungry generations tread thee down; 
The voice I hear this passing night was heard 
	In ancient days by emperor and clown: 
Perhaps the self-same song that found a path 
	Through the sad heart of Ruth, when, sick for home, 
	She stood in tears amid the alien corn; 
	The same that oft-times hath 
	Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam 
	Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn.
Forlorn! the very word is like a bell 
	To toll me back from thee to my sole self! 
Adieu! the fancy cannot cheat so well 
	As she is fam'd to do, deceiving elf. 
Adieu! adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades 
	Past the near meadows, over the still stream, 
	Up the hill-side; and now 'tis buried deep 
	In the next valley-glades: 
	Was it a vision, or a waking dream? 
	Fled is that music: - Do I wake or sleep?
Potato
BY JANE KENYON
In haste one evening while making dinner 
I threw away a potato that was spoiled 
on one end. The rest was redeemable.
In the yellow garbage pail 
it became the consort of coffee grounds, 
banana skins, carrot peelings. 
I pitched it onto the compost, 
where steaming scraps and leaves 
return, like bodies over time, to earth.
When I flipped the fetid layers with a hay 
fork to air the pile, the potato turned up 
unfailingly, as if to revile me—
looking plumper, firmer, resurrected 
instead of disassembling. It seemed to grow 
until it might have made shepherd’s pie 
for a whole hamlet, people who pass the day 
dropping trees, pumping gas, pinning 
hand-me-down baby clothes on the line.
Blackberry Eating
BY GALWAY KINNELL
I love to go out in late September
among the fat, overripe, icy, black blackberries
to eat blackberries for breakfast,
the stalks very prickly, a penalty
they earn for knowing the black art
of blackberry-making; and as I stand among them
lifting the stalks to my mouth, the ripest berries
fall almost unbidden to my tongue,
as words sometimes do, certain peculiar words
like strengths and squinched,
many-lettered, on-syllabled lumps,
which I squeeze, squinch open, and splurge well
in the silent, startled, icy, black language
of blackberry-eating in late September.
The Bear
BY GALWAY KINNELL
1  In late winter I sometimes glimpse bits of steam coming up from some fault in the old snow and bend close and see it is lung-colored and put down my nose and know the chilly, enduring odor of bear.   2  I take a wolf’s rib and whittle it sharp at both ends and coil it up and freeze it in blubber and place it out on the fairway of the bears.  And when it has vanished I move out on the bear tracks, roaming in circles until I come to the first, tentative, dark splash on the earth.  And I set out running, following the splashes of blood wandering over the world. At the cut, gashed resting places I stop and rest, at the crawl-marks where he lay out on his belly to overpass some stretch of bauchy ice I lie out dragging myself forward with bear-knives in my fists.   3  On the third day I begin to starve, at nightfall I bend down as I knew I would at a turd sopped in blood, and hesitate, and pick it up, and thrust it in my mouth, and gnash it down, and rise and go on running.   4  On the seventh day, living by now on bear blood alone, I can see his upturned carcass far out ahead, a scraggled, steamy hulk, the heavy fur riffling in the wind.  I come up to him and stare at the narrow-spaced, petty eyes, the dismayed face laid back on the shoulder, the nostrils flared, catching perhaps the first taint of me as he died.  I hack a ravine in his thigh, and eat and drink, and tear him down his whole length and open him and climb in and close him up after me, against the wind, and sleep.   5  And dream of lumbering flatfooted over the tundra, stabbed twice from within, splattering a trail behind me, splattering it out no matter which way I lurch, no matter which parabola of bear-transcendence, which dance of solitude I attempt, which gravity-clutched leap, which trudge, which groan.   6  Until one day I totter and fall— fall on this stomach that has tried so hard to keep up, to digest the blood as it leaked in, to break up and digest the bone itself: and now the breeze blows over me, blows off the hideous belches of ill-digested bear blood and rotted stomach and the ordinary, wretched odor of bear,  blows across my sore, lolled tongue a song or screech, until I think I must rise up and dance. And I lie still.   7  I awaken I think. Marshlights reappear, geese come trailing again up the flyway. In her ravine under old snow the dam-bear lies, licking lumps of smeared fur and drizzly eyes into shapes with her tongue. And one hairy-soled trudge stuck out before me, the next groaned out, the next, the next, the rest of my days I spend wandering: wondering what, anyway, was that sticky infusion, that rank flavor of blood, that poetry, by which I lived?
Semele Recycled
BY CAROLYN KIZER
After you left me forever,
I was broken into pieces,
and all the pieces flung into the river.
Then the legs crawled ashore
and aimlessly wandered the dusty cow-track.
They became, for a while, a simple roadside shrine:
A tiny table set up between the thighs
held a dusty candle, weed-and-fieldflower chains
placed reverently there by children and old women.
My knees were hung with tin triangular medals
to cure all forms of hysterical disease.
 
After I died forever in the river,
my torso floated, bloated in the stream,
catching on logs or stones among the eddies.
White water foamed around it, then dislodged it;
after a whirlwind trip, it bumped ashore.
A grizzled old man who scavenged along the banks
had already rescued my arms and put them by,
knowing everything has its uses, sooner or later.
 
When he found my torso, he called it his canoe,
and, using my arms as paddles,
he rowed me up and down the scummy river.
When catfish nibbled my fingers he scooped them up
and blessed his reusable bait.
Clumsy but serviceable, that canoe!
The trail of blood that was its wake
attracted the carp and eels, and the river turtle,
easily landed, dazed by my tasty red.
 
A young lad found my head among the rushes
and placed it on a dry stone.
He carefully combed my hair with a bit of shell
and set small offerings before it
which the birds and rats obligingly stole at night,
so it seemed I ate.
And the breeze wound through my mouth and empty sockets
so my lungs would sigh, and my dead tongue mutter.
Attached to my throat like a sacred necklace
was a circlet of small snails.
Soon the villagers came to consult my oracular head
with its waterweed crown.
Seers found occupation, interpreting sighs,
and their papyrus rolls accumulated.
 
Meanwhile, young boys retrieved my eyes
they used for marbles in a simple game
till somebody’s pretty sister snatched at them
and set them, for luck, in her bridal diadem.
Poor girl! When her future groom caught sight of her,
all eyes, he crossed himself in horror,
and stumbled away in haste
through her dowered meadows.
 
What then of my heart and organs,
my sacred slit
which loved you best of all?
They were caught in a fisherman’s net
and tossed at night into a pen for swine.
But they shone so by moonlight that the sows stampeded,
trampled one another in fear, to get away.
And the fisherman’s wife, who had thirteen living children
and was contemptuous of holy love,
raked the rest of me onto the compost heap.
 
Then in their various places and helpful functions,
the altar, oracle, offal, canoe and oars
learned the wild rumor of your return.
The altar leapt up, and ran to the canoe,
scattering candle grease and wilted grasses.
Arms sprang to their sockets, blind hands with nibbled nails
groped their way, aided by loud lamentation,
to the bed of the bride, snatched up those unlucky eyes
from her discarded veil and diadem,
and rammed them home. Oh, what a bright day it was!
This empty body danced on the riverbank.
Hollow, it called and searched among the fields
for those parts that steamed and simmered in the sun,
and never would have found them.
 
But then your great voice rang out under the skies
my name!—and all those private names
for the parts and places that had loved you best.
And they stirred in their nest of hay and dung.
The distraught old ladies chasing their lost altar,
and the seers pursuing my skull, their lost employment,
and the tumbling boys, who wanted the magic marbles,
and the runaway groom, and the fisherman’s thirteen children
set up such a clamor, with their cries of “Miracle!”
that our two bodies met like a thunderclap
in midday—right at the corner of that wretched field
with its broken fenceposts and startled, skinny cattle.
We fell in a heap on the compost heap
and all our loving parts made love at once,
while the bystanders cheered and prayed and hid their eyes
and then went decently about their business.
 
And here it is, moonlight again; we’ve bathed in the river
and are sweet and wholesome once more.
We kneel side by side in the sand;
we worship each other in whispers.
But the inner parts remember fermenting hay,
the comfortable odor of dung, the animal incense,
and passion, its bloody labor,
its birth and rebirth and decay.

HOT ASS POEM
-Jennifer L. Knox

Hey check out the ass on that guy he’s got a really hot ass I’d like to see his ass naked with his hot naked ass Hey check out her hot ass that chick’s got a hot ass she’s a red hot ass chick I want to touch it Hey check out the ass on that old man that’s one hot old man ass look at his ass his ass his old man ass Hey check out that dog’s ass wow that dog’s ass is hot that dog’s got a hot dog ass I want to squeeze that dog’s hot dog ass like a ball but a hot ball a hot ass ball Hey check out the ass on that bird how’s a bird get a hot ass like that that’s one hot ass bird ass I want to put that bird’s hot ass in my mouth and swish it around and around and around Hey check out the ass on that bike damn that bike’s ass it h-o-t you ever see a bike with an ass that hot I want to put my hot ass on that bike’s hot ass and make a double hot ass bike ass Hey check out that building it’s got a really really really hot ass and the doorman and the ladies in the information booth and the guy in the elevator got themselves a butt load of hot ass I want to wrap my arms around the whole hot ass building and squeeze myself right through its hot ass and out the other side I want to get me a hot ass piece of all 86 floors of hot hot hot hot ass!
In Bed (excerpts)
-KENNETH KOCH  HAMMER AND NAILS IN BED  To make it better They are making it a better bed And a bigger bed, firmer and larger And finer bed.So the hammer and nails in the bed And the carpenter's finger And thumb and his eyes and his shoulder. Bang!Bang!Smap!The hammer and nails in bed.  SHEEP IN BED  The sheep got into the bed By mistake.  OTHER POETRY BED  Shall I compare you to a summer's bed? You are more beautiful.  FRIENDS IN BED  Sleep well.  SIRENS IN BED  My face is plastered to the window When the sirens come.  COURTSHIP IN BED  "Please.Tell me you like me." "How did you get in this bed?"  WET DOG IN BED  There is nothing like a wet dog in bed.  DOG BED  In the dog bed I cannot sleep.  PHILOSOPHY IN BED  (I) Plato says this bed Isn't the real one. What did Plato know About beds?  (II) Spinoza constructed a bed Which was slept in by Alfred North Whitehead.  (XLIV) You say, "Let's go to bed" But those words have no meaning.  LUNCH IN BED  It's late!Get up!The roseate fruit trees Are blushing with the nape of new-frocked day! Awake!The modern breeze of spring Is pulsative through nest-caroming branches!  COWARDS IN BED  Afraid to turn over.Come on.Come on, turn over.Cowards in bed.  CHOPIN'S ETUDES IN BED  Here is the bed Of Chopin's Etudes, Over here is his Preludes' bed; And here is the bed of his Mazurkas.  BED  I'd wake up every morning And look out the window across the park.  SUICIDE  I was unable to tell you any reason To get out of bed.  A BLUE AND WHITE BED  Becomes a yellow and gold one, Then was green, pale green, Then violet, then onyx, Yes onyx, then it was an onyx bed.  BALCONIES IN BED  When you lean over When you fall When you speak  AT ENDEBED  At Endebed I mett you You go up on the lift, no, yes Then we hearing from sounds of guitars Americans strolling bingo hatrack in the lake.  ENEMIES IN BED  Enemies sleep in separate beds But in the same part of the city.  ZEN BED  I can't get to bed. Show me the bed and I will show you how tto get to it.  INVITING SOMEONE FROM BED  Come, let me help you out of bed. The sun is shining.The window is open.Look! From the balcony there is the street, which is like a bed.  POST-MODERNISM IN BED  Kadinsky, Arp, Valery, Leger, and Marinetti Are kicked out of bed. Then, for a long time, nobody gets back into it.  STRANGE BEDFELLOWS   The bear got into bed With his claws.  POETRY BED  To have it all at once, and make no decisions. But that is a decision.  I AM SORRY I DIDN'T EXPECT TO FIND YOU IN BED  With me I must have misdialed the telephone oh Wait a minute -- damn!I can't extricate Myself from these sheets yes I'm getting up what Did you expect after such a long night at the factory Of unexplained phenomena with your head and shoulders Beautiful as a telephone directory but please don't talk to me about love I have an appointment with my head with the dead with a pheasant With a song I'm nervous good-bye.It was the end of bed.  PHILOSOPHY OF BED  A man should be like a woman and a woman should be like an animal In bed is one theory.Another is that they both should be like beds.  PSYCHOANALYTIC CRITICISM IN BED  What are you trying to avoid talking about When you talk about bed?  OWL IN BED  The owl flew into the bed By mistake.  SNOW IN BED  Vanishing snowflakes, rooftops appearing And sidewalks and people and cars as we get out of bed.  DISCOBOLUS IN BED  The discus thrower Is still in bed. 

Variations on a Theme by William Carlos Williams 
By Kenneth Koch
1. I chopped down the house that you had been saving to live in next summer.
I am sorry, but it was morning, and I had nothing to do
and its wooden beams were so inviting. 
2. We laughed at the hollyhocks together
and then I sprayed them with lye.
Forgive me. I simply do not know what I am doing. 
3. I gave away the money that you had been saving to live on for the next ten years.
The man who asked for it was shabby
and the firm March wind on the porch was so juicy and cold. 
4. Last evening we went dancing and I broke your leg.
Forgive me. I was clumsy and
I wanted you here in the wards, where I am the doctor!
You And I Are Disappearing
YUSEF KOMUNYAKAA
The cry I bring down from the hills
belongs to a girl still burning
inside my head. At daybreak
she burns like a piece of paper.
She burns like foxfire
in a thigh-shaped valley.
A skirt of flames
dances around her
at dusk.
We stand with our hands
hanging at our sides,
while she burns 
like a sack of dry ice.
She burns like oil on water.
She burns like a cattail torch
dipped in gasoline.
She glows like the fat tip
of a banker's cigar,
silent as quicksilver.
A tiger under a rainbow
at nightfall.
She burns like a shot glass of vodka.
She burns like a field of poppies
at the edge of a rain forest.
She rises like dragonsmoke
to my nostrils.
She burns like a burning bush
driven by a godawful wind.
Selecting a Reader
BY TED KOOSER
First, I would have her be beautiful,
and walking carefully up on my poetry
at the loneliest moment of an afternoon,
her hair still damp at the neck
from washing it. She should be wearing
a raincoat, an old one, dirty
from not having money enough for the cleaners.
She will take out her glasses, and there
in the bookstore, she will thumb
over my poems, then put the book back
up on its shelf. She will say to herself,
"For that kind of money, I can get
my raincoat cleaned." And she will.
Church Going
BY PHILIP LARKIN
 
Once I am sure there's nothing going on
I step inside, letting the door thud shut.
Another church: matting, seats, and stone,
And little books; sprawlings of flowers, cut
For Sunday, brownish now; some brass and stuff
Up at the holy end; the small neat organ;
And a tense, musty, unignorable silence,
Brewed God knows how long. Hatless, I take off
My cycle-clips in awkward reverence,
Move forward, run my hand around the font.
From where I stand, the roof looks almost new-
Cleaned or restored? Someone would know: I don't.
Mounting the lectern, I peruse a few
Hectoring large-scale verses, and pronounce
"Here endeth" much more loudly than I'd meant.
The echoes snigger briefly. Back at the door
I sign the book, donate an Irish sixpence,
Reflect the place was not worth stopping for.
Yet stop I did: in fact I often do,
And always end much at a loss like this,
Wondering what to look for; wondering, too,
When churches fall completely out of use
What we shall turn them into, if we shall keep
A few cathedrals chronically on show,
Their parchment, plate, and pyx in locked cases,
And let the rest rent-free to rain and sheep.
Shall we avoid them as unlucky places?
Or, after dark, will dubious women come
To make their children touch a particular stone;
Pick simples for a cancer; or on some
Advised night see walking a dead one?
Power of some sort or other will go on
In games, in riddles, seemingly at random;
But superstition, like belief, must die,
And what remains when disbelief has gone?
Grass, weedy pavement, brambles, buttress, sky,
A shape less recognizable each week,
A purpose more obscure. I wonder who
Will be the last, the very last, to seek
This place for what it was; one of the crew
That tap and jot and know what rood-lofts were?
Some ruin-bibber, randy for antique,
Or Christmas-addict, counting on a whiff
Of gown-and-bands and organ-pipes and myrrh?
Or will he be my representative,
Bored, uninformed, knowing the ghostly silt
Dispersed, yet tending to this cross of ground
Through suburb scrub because it held unspilt
So long and equably what since is found
Only in separation - marriage, and birth,
And death, and thoughts of these - for whom was built
This special shell? For, though I've no idea
What this accoutred frowsty barn is worth,
It pleases me to stand in silence here;
A serious house on serious earth it is,
In whose blent air all our compulsions meet,
Are recognised, and robed as destinies.
And that much never can be obsolete,
Since someone will forever be surprising
A hunger in himself to be more serious,
And gravitating with it to this ground,
Which, he once heard, was proper to grow wise in,
If only that so many dead lie round.
 
Study for Love’s Body
by Katherine Larson
I. Landscape with Yellow Birds
The theories of Love
have become tremulous and complicated.
The way snow falls or Saturn revolves
repeatedly around some distance 
where space is nothing 
yet still something that separates.
Never mind time. Caterpillars 
have turned the fruit trees 
into body bags. The children paint 
the mandibles of fallen ones with 
silver meant for nursery stars. 
Without the immense responsibility 
of sympathy, these small deaths 
are nothing more than 
artifice. Like a single magnolia
in a cut glass bowl 
we have no idea where 
our roots went so suddenly.
II. Architecture in Ruins
Third floor of the doll factory,
ferns suck carbon
and sharper chemicals from air
near the women working.
They’re hunched over tables
of warped wood.
Half of everyone is painting
eyes and lashes on porcelain heads, the rest 
are threading hands to sleeves.
Outside in the courtyard
a smattering of doves rise.
Have you ever wanted to 
kiss a stranger’s hands?
III. Gardens Without Bats or Moss 
Gauguin writes to Theo van Gogh that in his painting he wants to suggest 
the idea of suffering—without ever explaining what kind.
IV. In Stone Archways
The light is spilt green milk, which is languorous 
as the red monkey Gauguin painted
by the brown body of Anna 
the Javanese. At the Chinese Market
I buy two red teacups and a can 
of coconut milk. I think—
Gauguin wouldn’t know
how Anna loved that monkey
and sang to him late at night.
Everywhere the sea screams
at me. A great pink slab of octopus arm, 
beside it, babies seasoned in orange spices.
Such symmetry! Surely they swam 
through the night like thirsty
flowers. I think you had it right 
when you said love is the mathematics
of distance. Split like a clam on ice, 
I feel raw, half-eaten. I rot
in the cold blue of the ego,
the crushed velvet of Anna’s chair.
Ars Poetica
BY DOROTHEA LASKY
I wanted to tell the veterinary assistant about the cat video Jason sent me
But I resisted for fear she'd think it strange
I am very lonely
Yesterday my boyfriend called me, drunk again
And interspersed between ringing tears and clinginess
He screamed at me with a kind of bitterness
No other human had before to my ears
And told me that I was no good
Well maybe he didn't mean that
But that is what I heard
When he told me my life was not worthwhile
And my life's work the work of the elite.
I say I want to save the world but really
I want to write poems all day
I want to rise, write poems, go to sleep,
Write poems in my sleep
Make my dreams poems
Make my body a poem with beautiful clothes
I want my face to be a poem
I have just learned how to apply
Eyeliner to the corners of my eyes to make them appear wide
There is a romantic abandon in me always
I want to feel the dread for others
I can feel it through song
Only through song am I able to sum up so many words into a few
Like when he said I am no good
I am no good
Goodness is not the point anymore
Holding on to things
Now that's the point

Emotions
-Dorothea Lasky
The flat balloon
Wraps around the child’s face.
This is how it feels when you talk to me, 
I can’t get out of it and you say very little. 
My hands are holding
The balloon tightly on the child’s face. 
I want the child to feel life. 
I want to feel
The pain that the clouds have made for me. 
Suddenly the child springs up, gets me a present, and says thank you. 
His dog follows after him
And the dog is made of snow and so am I.
KILL MARRY FUCK
BY DOROTHEA LASKY
 
It’s a game
Have you ever played
One for each
I’ll start:
Jack Nicholson in The Shining
Jack Nicholson in One Flew
Jack Nicholson in his bathrobe
It’s blue
Kill Marry Fuck
Amy Winehouse
James Merrill
Freddie Krueger
Goodbye
Kill Marry Fuck
Ellen DeGeneres
Ellen DeGeneres’s personal assistant
Phil Collins
Ashton Kutcher
A rainbow
My rapist
And Big Bird
Yeah
I’d fuck them all
But only Ellen DeGeneres
And only in that sailor suit
Ok, one more
Kill Marry Fuck
The postman
An isosceles triangle
My eggs
I mean my ovaries
Sunday afternoon in the park
With eggs
Not my ovaries
Wait, hold on
Do you want me
I want
Fish
A shining magenta clownfish
The taste of milk, sweeter than a cow
Jacking you off
In the yellow chair
With too many dressers
Kill Marry Fuck
All of it
And none of it with you
None of it with you or Charlie Sheen
Bill Clinton
Your leg in the air
Flopping in time
The dream of the unrecited
Me in the bathroom
And everything
With serial killers
With daffodils
You going down on me
In the back of a cab
Me shampooing your head with pine
No you hate oral sex
My breasts
Oil on your head
20 seconds
40 seconds
60 seconds
Sixty years later
A bomb of women
An entire country of women
Two women in the countryside
A pale green tapestry
Washed white by the seashore
The world
Kill Marry Fuck
A white star
The red dwarf
Time
I’d fuck time
I’d marry red
I’ve married anything
Holy Holy
Matrimony
Fiestaware
I’d kill them all
I have
Holy Holy
Day
The day that she was born
The intensity of birth
The incessant witch
It’s over
So over
It never began
Jack Nicholson
Jack Nicholson
Jack Nicholson
Kill Marry Fuck
All of it
All of it
Or Jack Nicholson
Jack Nicholson
Whatever there is to do
I’d do it to you
The yellow kitchen
A knife
A veil
Jack Nicholson
In your blue robe
I’d do it
All of it
For you
The Insurrection of Satan as Thunderbird
-Dorothea Lasky
I had this dream
That I was looking for this girl
To find her and feed her
And she was dead
I have known hatred
And hatred knows
No Mercy
Satan is a flat orange snake
I hang him on my wall
And pray to him for forgiveness
But Satan knows no mercy
Satan, you know no mercy
The Process of Explication
BY DOROTHEA LASKY
I
 
Students, look at this table
And now when you see a man six feet tall
You can call him a fathom.
 
Likewise, students when yes and you do that and other stuff
Likewise too the shoe falls upon the sun
And the alphabet is full of blood
And when you knock upon a sentence in the
Process of explication you are going to need a lot of rags
 
Likewise, hello and goodbye.
 
 
 II
 
Nick Algiers is my student
And he sits there in a heap in front of me thinking of suicide
And so, I am the one in front of him
And I dance around him in a circle and light him on fire
And with his face on fire, I am suddenly ashamed.
 
Likewise the distance between us then
Is the knife that is not marriage.
 
 
 III
 
Students, I can’t lie, I’d rather be doing something else, I guess
Like making love or writing a poem
Or drinking wine on a tropical island
With a handsome boy who wants to hold me all night.
 
I can’t lie that dreams are ridiculous.
And in dreaming myself upon the moon
I have made the moon my home and no one
Can ever get to me to hit me or kiss my lips.
 
And as my bridegroom comes and takes me away from you
You all ask me what is wrong and I say it is
That I will never win.

You ain’t gonna get glory if that’s what you came here for
-Dorothea Lasky
If no one wants to make a home with me
Then I will make a home with myself
And wait for someone
To plant the flowers outside my window
And make me pudding
While I write poems
And the fragile parts of me
Will be senseless. 
Conceptual art is dead. 
Language poetry, you know how I feel. 
Kenneth Koch, you are dead, too. 
All the others are not the ones to follow. 
Follow me, I know everything. 
Follow me
Art is not sense broken up into line
You with your lover there, you are not the birdhouse
The children coming from your womb
Are not longing made into flesh
You are not flesh, too
And flesh is not modern
It is old Mary on her throne
Sweetly coughing up angels
From a deep and sudden throat and the blueness of her dress is real
And her flaming heart with stakes in it feels a real and sudden pain
From a place we cannot imagine
And is felt everywhere, the blood running through it, 
Sugary sweet there, and soft.
Bavarian Gentians
BY D.H. LAWRENCE
Not every man has gentians in his house
in Soft September, at slow, Sad Michaelmas.
Bavarian gentians, big and dark, only dark
darkening the daytime torchlike with the smoking blueness of Pluto's
gloom,
ribbed and torchlike, with their blaze of darkness spread blue
down flattening into points, flattened under the sweep of white day
torch-flower of the blue-smoking darkness, Pluto's dark-blue daze,
black lamps from the halls of Dis, burning dark blue,
giving off darkness, blue darkness, as Demeter's pale lamps give off light,
lead me then, lead me the way.
Reach me a gentian, give me a torch!
Let me guide myself with the blue, forked torch of a flower
down the darker and darker stairs, where blue is darkened on blueness
down the way Persephone goes, just now, in first-frosted September
to the sightless realm where darkness is married to dark
and Persephone herself is but a voice, 
or a darkness invisible enfolded in the deeper dark
of the arms Plutonic, and pierced with the passion of dense gloom,
among the splendour of black-blue torches, shedding darkness on the lost
bride and her groom.
Bavarian gentians, tall and dark, but dark
darkening the daytime torch-like with the smoking blueness of Pluto's gloom,
ribbed hellish flowers erect, with their blaze of darkness spread blue,
blown flat into points, by the heavy white draught of the day. 
Figs
by D.H. Lawrence
 
The proper way to eat a fig, in society,
Is to split it in four, holding it by the stump,
And open it, so that it is a glittering, rosy, moist, honied, heavy-petalled four-petalled flower.
 
Then you throw away the skin
Which is just like a four-sepalled calyx,
After you have taken off the blossom, with your lips.
 
But the vulgar way
Is just to put your mouth to the crack, and take out the flesh in one bite.
 
Every fruit has its secret.
 
The fig is a very secretive fruit.
As you see it standing growing, you feel at once it is symbolic :
And it seems male.
But when you come to know it better, you agree with the Romans, it is female.
 
The Italians vulgarly say, it stands for the female part ; the fig-fruit :
The fissure, the yoni,
The wonderful moist conductivity towards the centre.
 
Involved,
Inturned,
The flowering all inward and womb-fibrilled ;
And but one orifice.
 
The fig, the horse-shoe, the squash-blossom.
Symbols. 
 
There was a flower that flowered inward, womb-ward ;
Now there is a fruit like a ripe womb.
 
It was always a secret.
That’s how it should be, the female should always be secret.
 
There never was any standing aloft and unfolded on a bough
Like other flowers, in a revelation of petals ;
Silver-pink peach, venetian green glass of medlars and sorb-apples,
Shallow wine-cups on short, bulging stems
Openly pledging heaven :
Here’s to the thorn in flower ! Here is to Utterance !
The brave, adventurous rosaceæ.
 
Folded upon itself, and secret unutterable,
And milky-sapped, sap that curdles milk and makes ricotta,
Sap that smells strange on your fingers, that even goats won’t taste it ;
Folded upon itself, enclosed like any Mohammedan woman,
Its nakedness all within-walls, its flowering forever unseen,
One small way of access only, and this close-curtained from the light ;
Fig, fruit of the female mystery, covert and inward,
Mediterranean fruit, with your covert nakedness,
Where everything happens invisible, flowering and fertilization, and fruiting
In the inwardness of your you, that eye will never see
Till it’s finished, and you’re over-ripe, and you burst to give up your ghost.
 
Till the drop of ripeness exudes,
And the year is over.
 
And then the fig has kept her secret long enough.
So it explodes, and you see through the fissure the scarlet.
And the fig is finished, the year is over.
 
That’s how the fig dies, showing her crimson through the purple slit
Like a wound, the exposure of her secret, on the open day.
Like a prostitute, the bursten fig, making a show of her secret.
 
That’s how women die too.
 
The year is fallen over-ripe,
The year of our women.
The year of our women is fallen over-ripe.
The secret is laid bare.
And rottenness soon sets in.
The year of our women is fallen over-ripe.
 
When Eve once knew in her mind that she was naked
She quickly sewed fig-leaves, and sewed the same for the man.
She’d been naked all her days before,
But till then, till that apple of knowledge, she hadn’t had the fact on her mind.
 
She got the fact on her mind, and quickly sewed fig-leaves.
And women have been sewing ever since.
But now they stitch to adorn the bursten fig, not to cover it.
They have their nakedness more than ever on their mind,
And they won’t let us forget it.
 
Now, the secret
Becomes an affirmation through moist, scarlet lips
That laugh at the Lord’s indignation.
 
What then, good Lord ! cry the women.
We have kept our secret long enough.
We are a ripe fig.
Let us burst into affirmation.
 
They forget, ripe figs won’t keep.
Ripe figs won’t keep.
 
Honey-white figs of the north, black figs with scarlet inside, of the south.
Ripe figs won’t keep, won’t keep in any clime.
What then, when women the world over have all bursten into affirmation ?
And bursten figs won’t keep ?
PIANO
By D.H. Lawrence
Softly, in the dusk, a woman is singing to me; 
Taking me back down the vista of years, till I see 
A child sitting under the piano, in the boom of the tingling strings 
And pressing the small, poised feet of a mother who smiles as she sings.
In spite of myself, the insidious mastery of song 
Betrays me back, till the heart of me weeps to belong 
To the old Sunday evenings at home, with winter outside 
And hymns in the cosy parlour, the tinkling piano our guide.
So now it is vain for the singer to burst into clamour 
With the great black piano appassionato. The glamour 
Of childish days is upon me, my manhood is cast 
Down in the flood of remembrance, I weep like a child for the past.
1918

Snake
BY D.H. LAWRENCE
A snake came to my water-trough
On a hot, hot day, and I in pyjamas for the heat,
To drink there.
In the deep, strange-scented shade of the great dark carob-tree
I came down the steps with my pitcher
And must wait, must stand and wait, for there he was at the trough before
me.
He reached down from a fissure in the earth-wall in the gloom
And trailed his yellow-brown slackness soft-bellied down, over the edge of
the stone trough
And rested his throat upon the stone bottom,
 And where the water had dripped from the tap, in a small clearness,
He sipped with his straight mouth,
Softly drank through his straight gums, into his slack long body,
Silently.
Someone was before me at my water-trough,
And I, like a second comer, waiting.
He lifted his head from his drinking, as cattle do,
And looked at me vaguely, as drinking cattle do,
And flickered his two-forked tongue from his lips, and mused a moment,
And stooped and drank a little more,
Being earth-brown, earth-golden from the burning bowels of the earth
On the day of Sicilian July, with Etna smoking.
The voice of my education said to me
He must be killed,
For in Sicily the black, black snakes are innocent, the gold are venomous.
And voices in me said, If you were a man
You would take a stick and break him now, and finish him off.
But must I confess how I liked him,
How glad I was he had come like a guest in quiet, to drink at my water-trough
And depart peaceful, pacified, and thankless,
Into the burning bowels of this earth?
Was it cowardice, that I dared not kill him? Was it perversity, that I longed to talk to him? Was it humility, to feel so honoured?
I felt so honoured.
And yet those voices:
If you were not afraid, you would kill him!
And truly I was afraid, I was most afraid, But even so, honoured still more
That he should seek my hospitality
From out the dark door of the secret earth.
He drank enough
And lifted his head, dreamily, as one who has drunken,
And flickered his tongue like a forked night on the air, so black,
Seeming to lick his lips,
And looked around like a god, unseeing, into the air,
And slowly turned his head,
And slowly, very slowly, as if thrice adream,
Proceeded to draw his slow length curving round
And climb again the broken bank of my wall-face.
And as he put his head into that dreadful hole,
And as he slowly drew up, snake-easing his shoulders, and entered farther,
A sort of horror, a sort of protest against his withdrawing into that horrid black 
hole,
Deliberately going into the blackness, and slowly drawing himself after,
Overcame me now his back was turned.
I looked round, I put down my pitcher,
I picked up a clumsy log
And threw it at the water-trough with a clatter.
I think it did not hit him,
But suddenly that part of him that was left behind convulsed in undignified 
haste.
Writhed like lightning, and was gone
Into the black hole, the earth-lipped fissure in the wall-front,
At which, in the intense still noon, I stared with fascination.
And immediately I regretted it.
I thought how paltry, how vulgar, what a mean act!
I despised myself and the voices of my accursed human education.
And I thought of the albatross
And I wished he would come back, my snake.
For he seemed to me again like a king,
Like a king in exile, uncrowned in the underworld,
Now due to be crowned again.
And so, I missed my chance with one of the lords
Of life.
And I have something to expiate:
A pettiness.
Taormina, 1923
Dreams of Avenging the Dogs
BY ESTHER LEE
You and I thigh deep in Suwannee River then in a bathtub. Spanish moss clogs
the drain and a man carrying a green towel interrupts. We send him away once
more knowing he'll return to watch. We're photographers shooting on location
for Sylvia Plath's upcoming book, Savage Beauty—wrong poet or wrong book,
I know, depending on how you look at it—however, I'm the one who is white
this time, you're darker, maybe Quechua Indian or Spanish, like actor Antonio
Banderas, with very defined stomach muscles and a slick throb of a penis.
Years later I write a book about our affair. They bring me on one of those
daytime talk shows, and before being reunited, we are kept in separate rooms, the
television split screen, green-towel man in the audience. I'm still white, so are you,
both of us middle-aged with freckles and strawberry-blonde hair. Later I'm the
viewer at home thinking, Like hell they'll fall for each other.
Persimmons
BY LI-YOUNG LEE
In sixth grade Mrs. Walker
slapped the back of my head
and made me stand in the corner 
for not knowing the difference 
between persimmon and precision. 
How to choose
persimmons. This is precision.
Ripe ones are soft and brown-spotted. 
Sniff the bottoms. The sweet one
will be fragrant. How to eat:
put the knife away, lay down newspaper. 
Peel the skin tenderly, not to tear the meat. 
Chew the skin, suck it,
and swallow. Now, eat
the meat of the fruit,
so sweet,
all of it, to the heart.
Donna undresses, her stomach is white. 
In the yard, dewy and shivering
with crickets, we lie naked,
face-up, face-down.
I teach her Chinese.
Crickets: chiu chiu. Dew: I’ve forgotten. 
Naked: I’ve forgotten.
Ni, wo: you and me.
I part her legs,
remember to tell her
she is beautiful as the moon.
Other words
that got me into trouble were
fight and fright, wren and yarn.
Fight was what I did when I was frightened, 
Fright was what I felt when I was fighting. 
Wrens are small, plain birds, 
yarn is what one knits with.
Wrens are soft as yarn.
My mother made birds out of yarn. 
I loved to watch her tie the stuff; 
a bird, a rabbit, a wee man.
Mrs. Walker brought a persimmon to class 
and cut it up
so everyone could taste
a Chinese apple. Knowing
it wasn’t ripe or sweet, I didn’t eat
but watched the other faces.
My mother said every persimmon has a sun 
inside, something golden, glowing, 
warm as my face.
Once, in the cellar, I found two wrapped in newspaper, 
forgotten and not yet ripe.
I took them and set both on my bedroom windowsill, 
where each morning a cardinal
sang, The sun, the sun.
Finally understanding 
he was going blind,
my father sat up all one night 
waiting for a song, a ghost. 
I gave him the persimmons, 
swelled, heavy as sadness, 
and sweet as love.
This year, in the muddy lighting
of my parents’ cellar, I rummage, looking 
for something I lost.
My father sits on the tired, wooden stairs, 
black cane between his knees,
hand over hand, gripping the handle.
He’s so happy that I’ve come home.
I ask how his eyes are, a stupid question. 
All gone, he answers.
Under some blankets, I find a box.
Inside the box I find three scrolls.
I sit beside him and untie
three paintings by my father:
Hibiscus leaf and a white flower.
Two cats preening.
Two persimmons, so full they want to drop from the cloth.
He raises both hands to touch the cloth, 
asks, Which is this?
This is persimmons, Father.
Oh, the feel of the wolftail on the silk, 
the strength, the tense
precision in the wrist.
I painted them hundreds of times 
eyes closed. These I painted blind. 
Some things never leave a person:
scent of the hair of one you love, 
the texture of persimmons,
in your palm, the ripe weight.
“Was you ever bit by a dead bee?”
BY HAILEY LEITHAUSER
 
I was, I was—by its posthumous chomp,
by its bad dab of venom, its joy-buzzer buzz.
If you’re ever shanked like the chump
that I was, by the posthumous chomp
of an expired wire, you’ll bellow out prompt
at the pitiless shiv when she does what she does.
Was you? I was. By its posthumous chomp,
by its bad dab of venom, its joy-buzzer buzz.
Fever
BY HAILEY LEITHAUSER
The heat so peaked tonight
the moon can’t cool
a scum-mucked swimming
pool, or breeze
emerge to lift the frowsy
ruff of owls too hot
to hoot, (the mouse and brown
barn rat astute
enough to know to drop
and dash) while
on the bunched up,
corkscrewed sheets of cots
and slumped brass beds,
the fitful twist
and kink and plead to dream
a dream of air
as bitter cruel as winter
gale that scrapes and blows
and gusts the grate
to luff
the whitened ashes from the coal.
O, She Says
BY HAILEY LEITHAUSER
 
O, she says (because she loves to say O),
O to this cloud-break that ravels the night,
O to this moon, its mouthful of sorrow,
O shallow grass and the nettle burr’s bite,
O to heart’s flare, its wobbly satellite,
O step after step in stumbling tempo,
O owl in oak, O rout of black bat flight,
(O moaned in Attic and Esperanto)
O covetous tongue, O fat fandango,
O gnat tango in the hot, ochered light,
O wind whirred leaves in subtle inferno,
O flexing of sea, O stars bolted tight,
O ludicrous swoon, O blind hindsight,
O torching of bridges and blood boiled white,
O sparrow and arrow and hell below,
O, she says, because she loves to say O.
[Gather your marginals...]
BY BEN LERNER
"Gather your marginals, Mr. Specific. The end is nigh. Your vanguard of vanishing points has vanished in the critical night. We have encountered a theory of plumage with plumage. We have decentered our ties. You must quit these Spenglerian Suites, this roomy room, this gloomy Why. Never again will your elephants shit in the embassy. Never again will you cruise through Topeka in your sporty two-door coffin. In memoriam, we will leave the laws you've broken broken."  On vision and modernity in the twentieth century, my mother wrote  "Help me." On the history of structuralism my father wrote  "Settle down," On the American Midwest from 1979 to the present, I wrote  "Gather your marginals, Mr. Specific, The end is nigh."  l wish all difficult poems were profound. Honk if you wish all difficult poems were profound.

How to Get There
BY PHILIP LEVINE
Turn left off Henry onto Middagh Street
 to see our famous firehouse, home
of Engine 205 and
Hook & Ladder 118 and home also to
 the mythic painting “Fire under
the Bridge” decorating
the corrugated sliding door. The painting
 depicts a giant American flag
wrinkled by wind 
and dwarfing the famous Brooklyn Bridge
 as it stretches as best it can
to get a purchase
on Manhattan. In the distance a few dismal
 towers and beyond the towers
still another river.
A little deal table holds a tiny American
 flag—like the one Foreman held
as he bowed to
receive gold at the ’68 Olympics in Mexico
 City—; this actual flag is rooted in
a can of hothouse
roses going brown at the edges and beginning
 to shed. There’s a metal collection
box bearing the
names of those lost during the recent burnings.
 Should you stop to shake the box—
which is none
of your business—you’ll hear only a whisper.
 Perhaps the donations are all
hush money,
ones, fives, tens, twenties, or more likely
 there are IOUs and the heart
of Brooklyn
has gone cold from so much asking.
 Down the block and across
the street, a man
sleeps on the sidewalk, an ordinary
 man, somehow utterly spent,
he sleeps through
all the usual sounds of a Brooklyn noon.
 Beside him a dog, a terrier,
its muzzle resting
on crossed paws, its brown eyes wide
 and intelligent. Between man
and dog sits
a take-out coffee cup meant to receive,
 next to it a picture of Jesus—
actually
a digital, color photograph of the Lord
 in his prime, robed and
though bearded
impossibly young and athletic, and—
 as always—alone. “Give
what you can,”
says a hand-lettered cardboard sign
 to all who pass. If you stand
there long enough
without giving or receiving the shabby,
 little terrier will close his eyes.
If you stand
there long enough the air will thicken
 with dusk and dust and exhaust
and finally with
a starless dark. The day will become something
 it’s never been before, something for
which I have no name.
M. Degas Teaches Art & Science at Durfee Intermediate School, Detroit 1942
BY PHILIP LEVINE

He made a line on the blackboard, 
one bold stroke from right to left 
diagonally downward and stood back 
to ask, looking as always at no one 
in particular, "What have I done?" 
From the back of the room Freddie 
shouted, "You've broken a piece 
of chalk." M. Degas did not smile. 
"What have I done?" he repeated. 
The most intellectual students 
looked down to study their desks 
except for Gertrude Bimmler, who raised 
her hand before she spoke. "M. Degas, 
you have created the hypotenuse 
of an isosceles triangle." Degas mused. 
Everyone knew that Gertrude could not 
be incorrect. "It is possible," 
Louis Warshowsky added precisely, 
"that you have begun to represent 
the roof of a barn." I remember 
that it was exactly twenty minutes 
past eleven, and I thought at worst 
this would go on another forty 
minutes. It was early April, 
the snow had all but melted on 
the playgrounds, the elms and maples 
bordering the cracked walks shivered 
in the new winds, and I believed 
that before I knew it I'd be 
swaggering to the candy store 
for a Milky Way. M. Degas 
pursed his lips, and the room 
stilled until the long hand 
of the clock moved to twenty one 
as though in complicity with Gertrude, 
who added confidently, "You've begun 
to separate the dark from the dark." 
I looked back for help, but now 
the trees bucked and quaked, and I 
knew this could go on forever.
You Can Have It
BY PHILIP LEVINE
My brother comes home from work
and climbs the stairs to our room.
I can hear the bed groan and his shoes drop 
one by one. You can have it, he says.
The moonlight streams in the window 
and his unshaven face is whitened
like the face of the moon. He will sleep
long after noon and waken to find me gone.
Thirty years will pass before I remember 
that moment when suddenly I knew each man 
has one brother who dies when he sleeps 
and sleeps when he rises to face this life,
and that together they are only one man 
sharing a heart that always labors, hands 
yellowed and cracked, a mouth that gasps 
for breath and asks, Am I gonna make it?
All night at the ice plant he had fed
the chute its silvery blocks, and then I 
stacked cases of orange soda for the children 
of Kentucky, one gray boxcar at a time
with always two more waiting. We were twenty 
for such a short time and always in
the wrong clothes, crusted with dirt
and sweat. I think now we were never twenty.
In 1948 in the city of Detroit, founded
by de la Mothe Cadillac for the distant purposes 
of Henry Ford, no one wakened or died, 
no one walked the streets or stoked a furnace,
for there was no such year, and now
that year has fallen off all the old newspapers,
calendars, doctors’ appointments, bonds, 
wedding certificates, drivers licenses.
The city slept. The snow turned to ice. 
The ice to standing pools or rivers
racing in the gutters. Then bright grass rose 
between the thousands of cracked squares,
and that grass died. I give you back 1948. 
I give you all the years from then
to the coming one. Give me back the moon 
with its frail light falling across a face.
Give me back my young brother, hard
and furious, with wide shoulders and a curse 
for God and burning eyes that look upon 
all creation and say, You can have it.
At the Grave of My Guardian Angel: St. Louis Cemetery, New Orleans
BY LARRY LEVIS
for Gerald Stern
At sixteen I was so vulnerable to every influence
That the overcast light, making the trash of addicts & sunbathers suddenly clearer
On the paths of the city park, seemed death itself spreading its shade 
Over the leaves, the swan boats, the gum wrappers, and the quarreling ducks.
It took nothing more than a few clouds straying over the sun,
And I would begin falling through myself like an anvil or a girl's comb or a feather
Dropped, tossed, or spiraling by pure chance down the silent air shaft of a warehouse,
The spiderweb in one fourth-floor window catching, in that moment, the sunset.
For in such a moment, to fall was to be simplified & pure,
With a neck snapped like a stem instead
Of whoever I turned out to be,
Wiping the window glass clear with one cuff
To gaze out at a two-hundred-year-old live oak tethering
The courtyard to its quiet,
The tree so old it has outlived even its life as a cliché,
And has survived, with no apparent effort, every boy who marched, like a wilderness
Himself, past it on his way to enlist in Lee’s army,
And now it swells gently in the mist & the early sunlight.
So who saved me? And for what purpose?
Beneath the small angel cut from cheap stone, there was nothing 
But my name & the years 1947-1949,
And the tense, muggy little quiet of a place where singing ends,
And where there is only the leftover colored chalk & the delusions of voodoo,
The small bones & X’s on stones signifying the practitioner’s absence, 
Entirely voluntary, from the gnat swirl & humming of time;
To which the chalked X on stone is the final theory; it is even illiterate. 
It is not even a lock of hair on a grave. It is not even
The small crowd of roughnecks at Poe’s funeral, nor the blind drunkard 
Laughing there, the white of his eyes the unfurling of a cold surf below a cliff—
Which is the blank wave sprawl of fact receding under the cries of gulls—
Which is not enough.
*
I should rush out to my office & eat a small, freckled apple leftover 
From 1970 & entirely wizened & rotted by sunlight now,
Then lay my head on my desk & dream again of horses grazing, riderless & still saddled,
Under the smog of the freeway cloverleaf & within earshot of the music waltzing with itself out
Of the topless bars & laundromats of East L.A.
I should go back again & try to talk my friend out of his diet
Of methamphetamine & vodka yogurts & the look of resignation spreading over his face
Like the gray shade of a tree spreading over a sleeper in the park—
For it is all or nothing in this life, for there is no other.
And without beauty, Bakunin will go on making his forlorn & unreliable little bombs in the cold, & Oswald will adjust 
The lenses on the scope of his rifle, the one
Friend he has carried with him all the way out of his childhood,
The silent wood of its stock as musical to him in its grain as any violin. 
This must have been what they meant,
Lincoln & Whitman, joining hands one overcast spring afternoon 
To stroll together through the mud of Washington at the end 
Of the war, the tears welling up in both their eyes,
Neither one of them saying a word, their hands clasped tightly together 
As they walk for block after block past
The bay, sorrel, chestnut, and dapple-gray tail swish of horses,
And waiting carriages, & neither one of them noticing, as they stroll & weave,
The harness gall on the winters of a mare,
Nor the gnats swarming over it, alighting now on the first trickle of blood uncaking from the sore;
And the underfed rib cage showing through its coat each time it inhales 
Like the tines of a rake combing the battleground to overturn 
Something that might identify the dead at Antietam.
The rake keeps flashing in the late autumn light.
And Bakunin, with a face impassive as a barn owl’s & never straying from the one true text of flames?
And Lincoln, absentmindedly trying to brush away the wart on his cheek 
As he dresses for the last time,
As he fumbles for a pair of cuff links in a silk-lined box,
As he anticipates some pure & frivolous pleasure,
As he dreams for a moment, & is a woman for a moment,
And in his floating joy has no idea what is going to happen to him in the next hour?
And Oswald dozing over a pamphlet by Trotsky in the student union? 
Oh live oak, thoughtless beauty in a century of pulpy memoirs, 
Spreading into the early morning sunlight
As if it could never be otherwise, as if it were all a pure proclamation of leaves & a final quiet—
*
But it’s all or nothing in this life; it’s smallpox, quicklime, & fire.
It’s the extinct whistling of an infantry; it is all the faded rosettes of blood
Turning into this amnesia of billboards & the ceaseless hunh? of traffic. 
It goes on & I go with it; it spreads into the sun & air & throws out a fast shade
That will never sleep, and I go with it; it breaks Lincoln & Poe into small drops of oil spreading
Into endless swirls on the water, & I recognize the pattern:
*
There there now, Nothing.
Stop your sniveling. Stop sifting dirt through your fingers into your glass of milk,
A milk still white as stone; whiter even. Why don’t you finish it?
We’d better be getting on our way soon, sweet Nothing.
I’ll buy you something pretty from the store.
I’ll let you wear the flower in your hair even though you can only vanish entirely underneath its brown, implacable petals.
Stop your sniveling. I can almost see the all night diner looming 
Up ahead, with its lights & its flashing sign a testimony to failure.
I can almost see our little apartment under the freeway overpass, the cups on the mantle rattling continually—
The Mojave one way; the Pacific the other.
At least we’ll have each other’s company.
And it’s not as if you held your one wing, tattered as it was, in contempt 
For being only one. It’s not as if you were frivolous.
It’s not like that. It’s not like that at all.
Riding beside me, your seat belt around your invisible waist. Sweet Nothing. 
Sweet, sweet Nothing.
Childhood Ideogram
BY LARRY LEVIS
I lay my head sideways on the desk,
My fingers interlocked under my cheekbones, 
My eyes closed. It was a three-room schoolhouse, 
White, with a small bell tower, an oak tree. 
From where I sat, on still days, I’d watch 
The oak, the prisoner of that sky, or read 
The desk carved with adults’ names: Marietta 
Martin, Truman Finnell, Marjorie Elm; 
The wood hacked or lovingly hollowed, the flies 
Settling on the obsolete & built-in inkwells. 
I remember, tonight, only details, how 
Mrs. Avery, now gone, was standing then 
In her beige dress, its quiet, gazelle print 
Still dark with lines of perspiration from 
The day before; how Gracie Chin had just 
Shown me how to draw, with chalk, a Chinese 
Ideogram. Where did she go, white thigh 
With one still freckle, lost in silk?
No one would say for sure, so that I’d know, 
So that all shapes, for days after, seemed 
Brushstrokes in Chinese: countries on maps 
That shifted, changed colors, or disappeared: 
Lithuania, Prussia, Bessarabia;
The numbers four & seven; the question mark. 
That year, I ate almost nothing.
I thought my parents weren’t my real parents, 
I thought there’d been some terrible mistake. 
At recess I would sit alone, seeing
In the print of each leaf shadow, an ideogram—
Still, indecipherable, beneath the green sound 
The bell still made, even after it had faded, 
When the dust-covered leaves of the oak tree 
Quivered, slightly, if I looked up in time.
And my father, so distant in those days,
Where did he go, that autumn, when he chose 
The chaste, faint ideogram of ash, & I had
To leave him there, white bones in a puzzle 
By a plum tree, the sun rising over
The Sierras? It is not Chinese, but English—
When the past tense, when you first learn to use it 
As a child, throws all the verbs in the language 
Into the long, flat shade of houses you
Ride past, & into town. Your father’s driving.
On winter evenings, the lights would come on earlier. 
People would be shopping for Christmas. Each hand, 
With the one whorl of its fingerprints, with twenty 
Delicate bones inside it, reaching up
To touch some bolt of cloth, or choose a gift, 
A little different from any other hand.
You know how the past tense turns a sentence dark, 
But leaves names, lovers, places showing through: 
Gracie Chin, my father, Lithuania;
A beige dress where dark gazelles hold still? 
Outside, it’s snowing, cold, & a New Year. 
The trees & streets are turning white.
I always thought he would come back like this. 
I always thought he wouldn’t dare be seen.
The Map
BY LARRY LEVIS

Applying to Heavy Equipment School 
I marched farther into the Great Plains 
And refused to come out.
I threw up a few scaffolds of disinterest. 
Around me in the fields, the hogs grunted 
And lay on their sides.
You came with a little water and went away. 
The glass is still on the table,
And the paper,
And the burned scaffolds.
 *
You were bent over the sink, washing your stockings.
I came up behind you like the night sky behind the town. 
You stood frowning at your knuckles
And did not speak.
 *
At night I lie still, like Bolivia.
My furnaces turn blue.
My forests go dark.
You are a low range of hills, a Paraguay. 
Now the clouds cover us both.
It is raining and the movie houses are open.
The Map
BY LARRY LEVIS
Applying to Heavy Equipment School 
I marched farther into the Great Plains 
And refused to come out.
I threw up a few scaffolds of disinterest. 
Around me in the fields, the hogs grunted 
And lay on their sides.
You came with a little water and went away. 
The glass is still on the table,
And the paper,
And the burned scaffolds.
 *
You were bent over the sink, washing your stockings.
I came up behind you like the night sky behind the town. 
You stood frowning at your knuckles
And did not speak.
 *
At night I lie still, like Bolivia.
My furnaces turn blue.
My forests go dark.
You are a low range of hills, a Paraguay. 
Now the clouds cover us both.
It is raining and the movie houses are open.

The Oldest Living Thing in L.A.
BY LARRY LEVIS
At Wilshire & Santa Monica I saw an opossum 
Trying to cross the street. It was late, the street 
Was brightly lit, the opossum would take
A few steps forward, then back away from the breath 
Of moving traffic. People coming out of the bars 
Would approach, as if to help it somehow. 
It would lift its black lips & show them 
The reddened gums, the long rows of incisors, 
Teeth that went all the way back beyond 
The flames of Troy & Carthage, beyond sheep 
Grazing rock-strewn hills, fragments of ruins 
In the grass at San Vitale. It would back away 
Delicately & smoothly, stepping carefully 
As it always had. It could mangle someone’s hand 
In twenty seconds. Mangle it for good. It could 
Sever it completely from the wrist in forty. 
There was nothing to be done for it. Someone 
Or other probably called the LAPD, who then 
Called Animal Control, who woke a driver, who 
Then dressed in mailed gloves, the kind of thing 
Small knights once wore into battle, who gathered 
Together his pole with a noose on the end,
A light steel net to snare it with, someone who hoped 
The thing would have vanished by the time he got there.
The Poet at Seventeen
BY LARRY LEVIS
My youth? I hear it mostly in the long, volleying 
Echoes of billiards in the pool halls where 
I spent it all, extravagantly, believing
My delicate touch on a cue would last for years.
Outside the vineyards vanished under rain,
And the trees held still or seemed to hold their breath 
When the men I worked with, pruning orchards, sang 
Their lost songs: Amapola; La Paloma;
Jalisco, No Te Rajes—the corny tunes
Their sons would just as soon forget, at recess,
Where they lounged apart in small groups of their own. 
Still, even when they laughed, they laughed in Spanish.
I hated high school then, & on weekends drove
A tractor through the widowed fields. It was so boring 
I memorized poems above the engine’s monotone. 
Sometimes whole days slipped past without my noticing,
And birds of all kinds flew in front of me then.
I learned to tell them apart by their empty squabblings, 
The slightest change in plumage, or the inflection 
Of a call. And why not admit it? I was happy
Then. I believed in no one. I had the kind 
Of solitude the world usually allows 
Only to kings & criminals who are extinct,
Who disdain this world, & who rot, corrupt & shallow
As fields I disced: I turned up the same gray
Earth for years. Still, the land made a glum raisin 
Each autumn, & made that little hell of days—
The vines must have seemed like cages to the Mexicans
Who were paid seven cents a tray for the grapes
They picked. Inside the vines it was hot, & spiders 
Strummed their emptiness. Black Widow, Daddy Longlegs. 
The vine canes whipped our faces. None of us cared.
And the girls I tried to talk to after class
Sailed by, then each night lay enthroned in my bed, 
With nothing on but the jewels of their embarrassment. 
Eyes, lips, dreams. No one. The sky & the road.
A life like that? It seemed to go on forever—
Reading poems in school, then driving a stuttering tractor 
Warm afternoons, then billiards on blue October 
Nights. The thick stars. But mostly now I remember
The trees, wearing their mysterious yellow sullenness 
Like party dresses. And parties I didn’t attend. 
And then the first ice hung like spider lattices 
Or the embroideries of Great Aunt No One,
And then the first dark entering the trees—
And inside, the adults with their cocktails before dinner, 
The way they always seemed afraid of something, 
And sat so rigidly, although the land was theirs.
`
Winter Stars
-LARRY LEVIS
My father once broke a man’s hand
Over the exhaust pipe of a John Deere tractor. The man, 
Ruben Vasquez, wanted to kill his own father
With a sharpened fruit knife, and he held
The curved tip of it, lightly, between his first
Two fingers, so it could slash
Horizontally, & with surprising grace, 
Across a throat. It was like a glinting beak in a hand, 
And, for a moment, the light held still 
On those vines. When it was over, 
My father simply went in & ate lunch, & then, as always, 
Lay alone in the dark, listening to music.
He never mentioned it.
I never understood how anyone could risk his life, 
Then listen to Vivaldi.
Sometimes, I go out into this yard at night, 
And stare through the wet branches of an oak 
In winter, & realize I am looking at the stars
Again. A thin haze of them, shining 
And persisting.
It used to make me feel lighter, looking up at them. 
In California, that light was closer. 
In a California no one will ever see again, 
My father is beginning to die. Something 
Inside him is slowly taking back 
Every word it ever gave him. 
Now, if we try to talk, I watch my father 
Search for a lost syllable as if it might 
Solve everything, & though he can’t remember, now, 
The word for it, he is ashamed…
If you can think of the mind as a place continually 
Visited, a whole city placed behind 
The eyes, & shining, I can imagine, now, its end—
As when the lights go off, one by one, 
In a hotel at night, until at last 
All of the travelers will be asleep, or until 
Even the thin glow from the lobby is a kind
Of sleep; & while the woman behind the desk 
Is applying more lacquer to her nails, 
You can almost believe that elevator, 
As it ascends, must open upon starlight.
I stand out on the street, & do not go in. 
That was our agreement, at my birth.
And for years I believed 
That what went unsaid between us became empty, 
And pure, like starlight, & that it persisted.
I got it all wrong. 
I wound up believing in words the way a scientist 
Believes in carbon, after death.
Tonight, I’m talking to you, father, although
It is quiet here in the Midwest, where a small wind, 
The size of a wrist, wakes the cold again— 
Which may be all that’s left of you & me.
When I left home at seventeen, I left for good.
That pale haze of stars goes on & on, 
Like laughter that has found a final, silent shape 
On a black sky. It means everything 
It cannot say. Look, it’s empty out there, & cold. 
Cold enough to reconcile 
Even a father, even a son.
how to triumph like a girl
Ada Limón
I like the lady horses best, 
how they make it all look easy,
like running 40 miles per hour
is as fun as taking a nap, or grass.
I like their lady horse swagger,
after winning. Ears up, girls, ears up!
But mainly, let’s be honest, I like
that they’re ladies. As if this big
dangerous animal is also a part of me,
that somewhere inside the delicate
skin of my body, there pumps
an 8-pound female horse heart,
giant with power, heavy with blood.
Don’t you want to believe it? 
Don’t you want to tug my shirt and see 
the huge beating genius machine
that thinks, no, it knows,
it’s going to come in first.
Carnival
BY REBECCA LINDENBERG
The mask that burns like a violin, the mask
that sings only dead languages, that loves
the destruction of being put on. The mask
that sighs like a woman even though
a woman wears it. The mask beaded with
freshwater pearls, with seeds. The plumed mask,
the mask with a sutured mouth, a moonface,
with a healed gash that means harvest. A glower
that hides wanting. A grotesque pucker. Here’s
a beaked mask, a braided mask, here’s a mask
without eyes, a mask that looks like a mask
but isn’t—please don’t try to unribbon it.
The mask that snows coins, the mask full of wasps.
Lace mask to net escaping thoughts. Pass me
the rouged mask, the one made of sheet music.
Or the jackal mask, the hide-bound mask
that renders lovers identical with night.
Invective Against the Bumblebee  by Diane Lockward 
Escapee from a tight cell, yellow-streaked,
sex-deprived sycophant to a queen,
you have dug divots in my yard
and like a squatter trespassed in my garage.
I despise you for you have swooped down
on my baby boy, harmless on a blanket of lawn,
his belly plumping through his orange stretch suit,
yellow hat over the fuzz of his head.
Though you mistook him for a sunflower,
I do not exonerate you,
for he weeps in my arms, trembles, and drools,
finger swollen like a breakfast sausage.
Now my son knows pain.
Now he fears the grass.
Fat-assed insect! Perverse pedagogue!
Henceforth, may flowers refuse to open for you.
May cats chase you in the garden.
I want you shellacked by rain, pecked by shrikes,
mauled by skunks, paralyzed by early frost.
May farmers douse your wings with pesticide.
May you never again taste the nectar
of purple clover or honeysuckle.
May you pass by an oak tree just in time
to be pissed on by a dog.
And tomorrow may you rest on my table
as I peruse the paper. May you shake
beneath the scarred face of a serial killer.
May you be crushed by the morning news.
Rape Joke
PATRICIA LOCKWOOD
The rape joke is that you were 19 years old.
The rape joke is that he was your boyfriend.
The rape joke it wore a goatee. A goatee.
Imagine the rape joke looking in the mirror, perfectly reflecting back itself, and grooming itself to look more like a rape joke. “Ahhhh,” it thinks. “Yes. A goatee.”
No offense.
The rape joke is that he was seven years older. The rape joke is that you had known him for years, since you were too young to be interesting to him. You liked that use of the word interesting, as if you were a piece of knowledge that someone could be desperate to acquire, to assimilate, and to spit back out in different form through his goateed mouth.
Then suddenly you were older, but not very old at all.
The rape joke is that you had been drinking wine coolers. Wine coolers! Who drinks wine coolers? People who get raped, according to the rape joke.
The rape joke is he was a bouncer, and kept people out for a living.
Not you!
The rape joke is that he carried a knife, and would show it to you, and would turn it over and over in his hands as if it were a book.
He wasn’t threatening you, you understood. He just really liked his knife.
The rape joke is he once almost murdered a dude by throwing him through a plate-glass window. The next day he told you and he was trembling, which you took as evidence of his sensitivity.
How can a piece of knowledge be stupid? But of course you were so stupid.
The rape joke is that sometimes he would tell you you were going on a date and then take you over to his best friend Peewee’s house and make you watch wrestling while they all got high.
The rape joke is that his best friend was named Peewee.
OK, the rape joke is that he worshiped The Rock.
Like the dude was completely in love with The Rock. He thought it was so great what he could do with his eyebrow.
The rape joke is he called wrestling “a soap opera for men.” Men love drama too, he assured you.
The rape joke is that his bookshelf was just a row of paperbacks about serial killers. You mistook this for an interest in history, and laboring under this misapprehension you once gave him a copy of Günter Grass’s My Century, which he never even tried to read.
It gets funnier.
The rape joke is that he kept a diary. I wonder if he wrote about the rape in it.
The rape joke is that you read it once, and he talked about another girl. He called her Miss Geography, and said “he didn’t have those urges when he looked at her anymore,” not since he met you. Close call, Miss Geography!
The rape joke is that he was your father’s high-school student—your father taught World Religion. You helped him clean out his classroom at the end of the year, and he let you take home the most beat-up textbooks.
The rape joke is that he knew you when you were 12 years old. He once helped your family move two states over, and you drove from Cincinnati to St. Louis with him, all by yourselves, and he was kind to you, and you talked the whole way. He had chaw in his mouth the entire time, and you told him he was disgusting and he laughed, and spat the juice through his goatee into a Mountain Dew bottle.
The rape joke is that come on, you should have seen it coming. This rape joke is practically writing itself.
The rape joke is that you were facedown. The rape joke is you were wearing a pretty green necklace that your sister had made for you. Later you cut that necklace up. The mattress felt a specific way, and your mouth felt a specific way open against it, as if you were speaking, but you know you were not. As if your mouth were open ten years into the future, reciting a poem called Rape Joke.
The rape joke is that time is different, becomes more horrible and more habitable, and accommodates your need to go deeper into it.
Just like the body, which more than a concrete form is a capacity.
You know the body of time is elastic, can take almost anything you give it, and heals quickly.
The rape joke is that of course there was blood, which in human beings is so close to the surface.
The rape joke is you went home like nothing happened, and laughed about it the next day and the day after that, and when you told people you laughed, and that was the rape joke.
It was a year before you told your parents, because he was like a son to them. The rape joke is that when you told your father, he made the sign of the cross over you and said, “I absolve you of your sins, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,” which even in its total wrongheadedness, was so completely sweet.
The rape joke is that you were crazy for the next five years, and had to move cities, and had to move states, and whole days went down into the sinkhole of thinking about why it happened. Like you went to look at your backyard and suddenly it wasn’t there, and you were looking down into the center of the earth, which played the same red event perpetually.
The rape joke is that after a while you weren’t crazy anymore, but close call, Miss Geography.
The rape joke is that for the next five years all you did was write, and never about yourself, about anything else, about apples on the tree, about islands, dead poets and the worms that aerated them, and there was no warm body in what you wrote, it was elsewhere.
The rape joke is that this is finally artless. The rape joke is that you do not write artlessly.
The rape joke is if you write a poem called Rape Joke, you’re asking for it to become the only thing people remember about you.
The rape joke is that you asked why he did it. The rape joke is he said he didn’t know, like what else would a rape joke say? The rape joke said YOU were the one who was drunk, and the rape joke said you remembered it wrong, which made you laugh out loud for one long split-open second. The wine coolers weren’t Bartles & Jaymes, but it would be funnier for the rape joke if they were. It was some pussy flavor, like Passionate Mango or Destroyed Strawberry, which you drank down without question and trustingly in the heart of Cincinnati Ohio.
Can rape jokes be funny at all, is the question.
Can any part of the rape joke be funny. The part where it ends—haha, just kidding! Though you did dream of killing the rape joke for years, spilling all of its blood out, and telling it that way.
The rape joke cries out for the right to be told.
The rape joke is that this is just how it happened.
The rape joke is that the next day he gave you Pet Sounds. No really. Pet Sounds. He said he was sorry and then he gave you Pet Sounds. Come on, that’s a little bit funny.
Admit it.

The Hypno-Domme Speaks, and Speaks and Speaks
BY PATRICIA LOCKWOOD
I was born as a woman, I talk you to death,
 	or else your ear off,
or else you to sleep. What do I have, all the time
in the world, and a voice that swings brass back
and forth, you can hear it, and a focal point where
my face should be. What do I have, I have absolute
power, and what I want is your money, your drool,
and your mind, and the sense of myself as a snake,
and a garter in the grass. Every bone in the snake
is the hipbone, every part of the snake is the hips.
The first sound I make is silence, then sssssshhh,
	the first word I say is listen. Sheep shearers
	and accountants hypnotize the hardest,
and lookout sailors who watch the sea, and the boys
who cut and cut and cut and cut and cut the grass.
The writers who write page-turners, and the writers
who repeat themselves. The diamond-cutter kneels
down before me and asks me to hypnotize him, and
I glisten at him and glisten hard, and listen to me and
listen, I tell him. Count your age backward, I tell him.
Become aware of your breathing, and aware of mine
 	which will go on longer. Believe you
 	are a baby till I tell you otherwise, then believe
you’re a man till I tell you you’re dirt. When a gunshot
rings out you’ll lie down like you’re dead. When you
	hear, “He is breathing,” you’ll stand up again.
The best dog of the language is Yes and protects you.
The best black-and-white dog of the language is Yes
and goes wherever you go, and you go where I say,
you go anywhere. Why do I do it is easy, I am working
my way through school. Give me the money
 	for Modernism, and give me the money
for what comes next. When you wake to the fact that you
have a body, you will wake to the fact that not for long.
When you wake you will come when you read the word
hard, or hard to understand me, or impenetrable poetry.
When you put down the book you will come when you
hear the words put down the book,
	you will come when you hear.
Little Infinite Poem
BY FREDERICO GARCIS LORCA
For Luis Cardoza y Aragon
To take the wrong road
is to arrive at the snow,
and to arrive at the snow
is to get down on all fours for twenty centuries and eat 
the grasses of the cemeteries.
To take the wrong road
is to arrive at woman,
woman who isn’t afraid of light,
woman who murders two roosters in one second,
light which isn’t afraid of roosters,
and roosters who don’t know how to sing on top of the
snow.
But if the snow took the wrong heart,
the southern wind could very well arrive,
and since the air cares nothing for groans,
we will have to get down on all fours again and eat the
grasses of the cemeteries.
I saw two mournful wheat heads made of wax
burying a countryside of volcanoes;
and I saw two insane little boys who wept as they leaned 
on a murderer’s eyeballs.
But two, that is not a number !
All it is is an agony and its shadow,
it’s only the guitar where love feels its discouragement hopeless it is,
it’s only the demonstration of of something else’s infinity,
a castle raised around a dead man,
and the scourging of the new resurrection that will never 
end.
Dead people hate the number two,
but the number two makes women drop off to sleep,
and since women are afraid of light,
light shudders when it has to face the roosters,
and since all roosters know is how to fly over the snow
we will have to get down on all fours and eat the grasses 
of the cemeteries forever.

Trans. Robert Bly
Letter to My Assailant
SUZANNE LUMMIS
On such occasions
one comes to know someone spectacularly fast.
Even with your unfriendly arm at my throat
you could hide nothing from me.
Your failures with women, for instance,
filed through my mind.
And I knew your father was hostile to doors.
He liked to slam them or break them down.
Your mother worked her way up from dimestore
to drugstore. Even in her grave
her hopes kept shrinking.
Now she’s thin as a spindle.
I even knew without looking
your socks had red diamonds
like a small town boy’s. In fact,
with my breath stopped in my throat
your whole life flashed past my eyes,
but I didn’t let on.
“I can’t breathe;’ I gasped,
and you loosened your hold.
I suppose I should have been grateful,
instead I felt impatient with men,
with their small favors.
I suppose you felt the same about me.
You’d no sooner reached through my torn blouse
when my screams made you bolt.
We leapt from each other
like two hares released from a trap. Oh, oh,
something’s not right between men and women.
Perhaps we talked too much,
or did we leave too much unsaid?
When you ripped my shirt mumbling
“I don’t want to hurt you,”
I replied, “That’s what they all say.”
I’ll admit I was glib if you’ll admit
you were insensitive. Look,
the world is brimming with happy couples,
benign marriages, with men and women
who’ve adjusted to each other’s defects.
Couldn’t we adjust to each other’s defects?
I’ll begin by trying harder not to forget you,
to remember more clearly
your approximate height, your brown shirt
which I described to the police.
Our encounter must stand out in our minds,
distinct from all others.
I never intended
all this to become blurred in my memory,
to confuse you with other men.
Ars Poetica
BY ARCHIBALD MACLEISH
A poem should be palpable and mute 
As a globed fruit,
Dumb
As old medallions to the thumb,
Silent as the sleeve-worn stone
Of casement ledges where the moss has grown—
A poem should be wordless 
As the flight of birds.
 	* 
A poem should be motionless in time 
As the moon climbs,
Leaving, as the moon releases
Twig by twig the night-entangled trees,
Leaving, as the moon behind the winter leaves, 
Memory by memory the mind—
A poem should be motionless in time 
As the moon climbs.
 	* 
A poem should be equal to:
Not true.
For all the history of grief
An empty doorway and a maple leaf.
For love
The leaning grasses and two lights above the sea—
A poem should not mean 
But be.
Asking for More
-Sarah Manguso
I am not asking to suffer less.
I hope to be nearly crucified.
To live because I don't want to.
That hope, that sweet agent —
My best work is its work.
The horse I ride into Hell is my best horse
And bears its name.
So, friends, drink your cocktails and wear your hats.
Thank you for leaving me this whole world to go mad in.
I am not asking for mercy. I am asking for more.
I don't mind when no mercy comes
Or when it comes in the form of my mad self
Running at me. I am not asking for mercy.
Breakfast with Thom Gunn
BY RANDALL MANN
in memory, 1929-2004
We choose a cheap hotel
because they’re serving drinks.
We drink. I hear him tell
a tale or two: he thinks
 
that so-and-so’s a sleaze;
and then there was the time
that Milosz phoned, oh please.
Another gin with lime?
 
I want to say that once,
I saw him dressed in leather,
leaning on a fence
inside a bar. Rather,
 
walking to the N,
I gush about his books;
he gives his change to men
who’ve lost their homes and looks:
 
how like him, I’ve been told.
Our day together done,
I hug him in the cold.
And then the train is gone.
Pantoum
BY RANDALL MANN
If there is a word in the lexicon of love,
it will not declare itself.
The nature of words is to fail
men who fall in love with men.
It will not declare itself,
the perfect word. Boyfriend seems ridiculous:
men who fall in love with men
deserve something a bit more formal.
The perfect word? Boyfriend? Ridiculous.
But partner is . . . businesslike—
we deserve something a bit less formal,
much more in love with love.
But if partner is businesslike,
then lover suggests only sex,
is too much in love with love.
There is life outside of the bedroom,
and lover suggests only sex.
We are left with roommate, or friend.
There is life, but outside of the bedroom.
My friend and I rarely speak of one another.
To my left is my roommate, my friend.
If there is a word in the lexicon of love,
my friend and I rarely speak it of one another.
The nature of words is to fail.
Poem Beginning with a Line by John Ashbery
By Randall Mann
Jealousy.Whispered weather reports. The lure of the land so strong it prompts gossip: we chatter like small birds at the edge of the ocean gray, foaming.  Now sand under sand hides the buried world, the one in which our fathers failed, the palm frond a dangerous truth they once believed, and touched.Bloodied their hands.  They once believed.And, touched, bloodied their hands; the palm frond, a dangerous truth; the buried world, the one in which our fathers failed. Now sand under sand hides  at the edge of the ocean: gray, foaming gossip.We chatter like small birds, the lure of the land so strong it prompts jealousy.Whispered weather reports.
Queen Christina
BY RANDALL MANN
To celebrate his final Pride, in June,
my friend, lymphatic, thin, and in distress,
managed to dress in drag. He shot the moon:
outstretched, he’d used his dying to think—obsess—
 
about the Prada pumps, their skin a snake;
the heavy pantyhose, two pair; the moot
but lacy underthings; the makeup, cake,
to overlay his pain. I called him beaut-
 
i-ful; he said he felt like Greta Garbo
in Queen Christina (our campy interplay);
I countered that he looked more like a hobo-
sexual in heels. We howled. That day,
 
we never left his Castro flat. His rhinestone
glittered, and everywhere, the smell of cologne.
A Condensed History of Beauty
-Maurice Manning

1907:	A man digs a deepwell on a hilltop, harnessing
gravity, resulting in free indoor plumbing.
1926:	A man and a woman sit in a country parlor by a fire;
she reads Sonnets From the Portuguese out loud; he falls asleep.
1937:	A boy rides a chestnut gelding twenty-six miles
to town and twenty-six miles back without bouncing once.
1939:	A boy cracks sixty-three hickory nuts with a hammer;
a woman proceeds to bake a legendary cake.
1944:	A boy takes a shotgun to a freightyard and blasts
lead patterns on the sides of boxcars.
1945:	A man picks up a coal bucket and his heart explodes; two mules
drag his casket up a hill; the preacher recites “The Crossing of the Bar.”
1951:	A young man writes his mother from Korea:
It has been turrble colt in this Godforsaken two bit place, ha!
1965:	A gambler wins thirty-seven rocky acres and a rough-hewn house
in a card game; he hangs a sign by the road: Trespassers Will Be Shot 
in the Knee.
1972:	A boy climbs a tree with a slingshot in his teeth; he has a powder horn
full of pea gravel and shoots at a washtub; it sounds like a church bell.
1973:	A boy listens to a transistor radio while lying in a burned out car; 
that night, he tells his sister: Today I heard you singing from a little 
silver box!
1976:	Two boys take the foot-brake off of a bicycle. One boy sits
on the handlebars. The peddling boy says: Let’s close our eyes.
Portrait of a Child
BY COREY MARKS
When I'm ready to think of something else, finally,
I think of wind that runs like a river along a river,
and trees bending into themselves with a will for breaking,
a will to break from the soil and leave the lap of the horsefield
where death has laid its head, its fire-red curls.
I think of the young painter who finds the body of a child,
drowned in the river and cast on stones that rattle
in the white hands of the water.
At first, the painter thinks all the right things.
He thinks of his infant son.
But then he notices the child's beautiful blue lips
like the blue rim of a bowl, and the wine of its blood
spilled on a stone, and the dark loaves of its closed eyes
resting on the table of its face,
like the meal Christ rises over, sweeping his hands apart
while around the table the Apostles all lean against each other,
whispering, waiting, posing, even, for the thousands of painters
not yet born,
all but Judas, who looks away,
who has already broken the heavy bread and chews the grain,
not thinking of betrayal, of kissing sour wine from Christ's lips,
but of walking in a narrow street and hearing the song
of one bird that flew a hundred miles to rest in a tree
and pull its meal from a tent of worms.
The painter begins a portrait of the boy.
For a long time he stands beside the river, the brushes in a jar
near his hand, the sun turning lower in the sky,
and after a while he doesn't look at the child on the stones
but only at the boy lying in the soft bed of paint,
the dead boy at the end of his brush.
Then the boy by the water wakes
and climbs from the stones to the riverbank.
He walks to the painter and asks him, What are you painting?
You, the painter says, But you're dead.
No, the boys says, That boy is dead,
and he points to the painting.
Fame Food & Liquor
BY NATE MARSHALL
we cut down 115th street for a quicker stroll
past the pastor's house, vacant lot, liquor store.
buses pointing out the hood & back. the route
every morning goes by the liquor store.
the loose Philly blunts and hard & dry. the sour mouth
washed away by a dull gulp of liquor. store
a honey bun in your fat back pocket. pray
nobody notices your awkward walk. this liquor store
sees stumbling often. out front the garish stickers fluoresce
on the wire windows like winos with liquor store
bottles. a small weapon sits behind the counter hidden by the cigarettes
& candy small enough to steal. when the liquor store
is locked up the rolling metals make the window
a pastoral, part of our natural habitat. behold the liquor store:
the sugar waters, the Ziploc bag of coins
& Nate's tongue the color of loose pennies in the liquor store.

Harold's Chicken Shack #1
BY NATE MARSHALL
 i was born by a lake, chicken shack,
& a church
 — Common, “The Morning”
1st defense against food deserts.
when the whitefolk wouldn't sling
us burgers you gave no fuck.
stuck your golden-ringed hand
into the flour & fixed the bird.
you 1st example of black flight.
original innovation of deep fry.
you beef tallow, city slick
& down home migration taste.
of course your sauce sweet
& burn at the same time.
of course you call it mild
so whitefolk won't know
to fear until it's too late.
you no corporate structure,
just black business
model. they earn the recipe
& go make it their own.
every cut of crow you
throw in the grease is dark
meat. the whole shack:
shaking, drenched in mild
sauce, sweet spirit, baptized.
Tipping Over the Actuarial Tables
BY DIONISIO D. MARTÍNEZ
No one in neuroscience thinks time is not important. 
Criticisms arise with how time management is achieved. 
- Dr. Patricia Churchland, philosopher/brain scientist
1. 

When handling the past in the present tense, chronology is of the 
utmost importance. Suppose I say I’m eight years old and all the rooms 
of my father’s house are larger than life. Then I say Two days after my 
first divorce, the only landscape I know is simplified, bone-smooth. The 
past remains practically undisturbed. But suppose I reverse the order 
in which the episodes are recreated, and time goes on a rampage, and 
I find myself coming and going. Journeys on land have a spherical 
tendency because this is always at some level the nature of the ter- 
rain. The anthill crumbles in the rain and the ants returning with 
more provisions walk past the leveled mound; having noticed noth- 
ing, they keep looking for home. Though each mouth carries its 
crumb of substance, tradition and evolution will see to it that it isn’t 
eaten until the journey has been completed. It’s not unusual for the 
ants to walk repeatedly over the ruins. A squirrel chases itself so fast 
around the trunk of a palm tree that it appears to be standing still, 
like propeller blades in midflight. (I used to know the cause of this 
illusion.) I say Someone’s at the door, somebody please get the door 
although I haven’t lived there in years. Somebody please get the door. 
I want nothing more than my share of the past. 

2. 

True. There are degrees of isolation. Sixteen days after a shopping 
center collapses like a punctured lung in Seoul, South Korea, a nine- 
teen-year-old girl is found alive in an elevator shaft. Her only nour- 
ishment throughout the ordeal is an apple that a monk gives her in 
a dream. The doctors are skeptical and attribute her survival, instead, 
to “her false perception of time.” The brain—with its network of 
rivers and tributaries, the flow rigorously controlled—is taxed by a 
sudden drought. Or an apple passes from one hand to another. In 
both versions, extraordinary measures achieve a modicum of nor- 
malcy, shaken again when a boy—age thirteen, his circadian rhythms 
still fighting the syncopation of jet lag—walks out the window on 
the thirtieth floor of a Swedish building. They’re calling it “a sleep- 
walking accident,” as if sleep were a cognitive state. If that were the 
case, our sheep and our prayers would keep us up all night, count- 
ing and repenting, and there would be degrees of salvation. I can tell 
you that none of this is true, but much of it is, and you will not for- 
give me when you discover that I’ve led you to believe otherwise. 
The truth, in one form or another, has ways of finding you. Blame 
it on your false perception of the facts. Time the sniper has lapses in 
which its eyes tire and its focus falters and it aims at itself. So the 
window opens; the girl shakes the rubble from her dress; a monk, 
gathering apples in his robe, almost catches the falling boy. 

3. 

They say that when the Who performed at Leeds University on 
Valentine’s Day 1970, Pete Townshend played against his own echo 
during some of those riveting excursions he launched into through- 
out the band’s quarter-hour-long offering of "My Generation." I lis- 
ten to it differently now. I wait for the echo they tell me is there, 
preceding each note, and it’s as if I were experiencing the music a pri- 
ori. I listen to the chords or whole riffs bouncing off the walls versus sound 
in real time. Doing so, I miss the actual song, which is also delayed 
because this is, after all, a recording. Once, the concept of real time 
was redundant. Before the first gramophone. Before we learned to 
manipulate the speed of things to come. And long before that, the idea 
of a spirit that takes over for the temporary body was already popular. 
Perhaps our first attempt to deny the unavoidable. One new religion 
offers immortality. For a price. Unlike traditional religions in which 
death is a prerequisite, this one teaches the body to bypass the soul, 
that middle man who always gets in the way, and the here-and-now 
becomes a here-and-always. It’s all up here, one of its members says to 
me, pointing his index finger at his temple, as if mimicking a gun. I 
may actually want to die before I get old, I think, the radio as loud as 
it’ll go, one chord after another bouncing off the walls so many years 
ago at Leeds, the road much longer than I’d expected, the signal grow- 
ing weaker and one station giving way to another. From feedback to 
static to a preacher who invites me or commands me or dares me to 
lay my hands on the radio. Both hands, he says. I raise my legs, raise 
my whole body (although it’s not levitation or anything nearly as glam- 
orous) to steady the steering wheel. 

4. 

In The Book of Ironies they forgot to write that a superstitious 
woman will end up marrying an atheist. Curiously, in all the cases I 
know, it’s the man who doesn’t believe. The woman is always open 
at the very least to the possibility of that “something out there.” At 
times her superstitions are proof of God’s constant tinkering with 
the cogs and wheels of the soul. There are atheists with proof of a 
finite world, atheists in need of a finite world, reformed atheists 
whose image of God has become so pure over the years that it has 
gone from inevitable to unnecessary to simply impossible. One 
believer argues that only the next life makes this one tolerable and 
lends it purpose, that only the idea of being part of something cir- 
cular can keep us from going mad, because true madness is linear 
and the points at either end are clearly defined. This is an uncom- 
fortable thought for her. I wonder if her belief is, more than any- 
thing, a way to keep at bay this linear derangement. The atheist lying 
beside her is beginning to sink into sleep when she speaks: she has 
carefully chosen this moment, thinking he’s vulnerable enough to 
say what she wants to hear. He sits on the edge of the bed and won- 
ders for a moment what it would be like to take that leap forward; 
or backward, which is something she doesn’t mention: believers of 
her kind tend to discount any previous incarnations, as if eternity 
began here. Being here, he says to himself as he has said to her so 
many times, is the point. Then he tries to think his way back to sleep: 
wedding band, crown, zero, smoke ring, lasso, hula hoop.
Mrs. Mason and the Poets
BY DAVID MASON
At that point I had lived with Mr. Tighe
so many years apart from matrimony
we quite forgot the world would call it sin.
We were, in letters of our friends at Pisa,
Mr. and Mrs. Mason, the common name
domesticating the arrangement. (Our friends
were younger, thinking it a novelty.)
You’ve heard about Lord Byron and his zoo,
how he befriended geese he meant to eat
and how they ruled his villa like a byre
with peacocks, horses, monkeys, cats and crows.
And our friend Shelley whom we thought so ill,
whose brilliant wife was palely loitering,
waiting to give birth and dreading signs
that some disaster surely must befall them.
Shelley of the godless vegetable love,
pursuer of expensive causes, sprite.
He had confided in me more than once
how his enthusiasms caused him pain
and caused no end of pain to those he loved.
Some nights I see his blue eyes thrashing back
and comprehend how grieved he was, how aged.
Genius, yes, but often idiotic.
It took too many deaths, too many drownings,
fevers, accusations, to make him see
the ordinary life was not all bad.
I saw him last, not at the stormy pier
but in a dream. He came by candlelight,
one hand inside a pocket, and I said,
You look ill, you are tired, sit down and eat.
He answered, No, I shall never eat more.
I have not a soldo left in all the world.
Nonsense, this is no inn—you need not pay.
Perhaps it is the worse for that, he said.
He drew the hand out of his pocket, holding
a book of poems as if to buy his supper.
To see such brightness fallen broke my heart,
and then, of course, I learned that he had drowned.
Once, they say, he spread a paper out
upon a table, dipped his quill and made
a single dot of ink. That, he said,
is all of human knowledge, and the white
is all experience we dream of touching.
If I should spread more paper here, if all
the paper made by man were lying here,
that whiteness would be like experience,
but still our knowledge would be that one dot.
I’ve watched so many of the young die young.
As evening falls, I know that Mr. Tighe
will come back from his stroll, and he will say
to humour me, Why Mrs. Mason, how
might you have spent these several lovely hours?
And I shall notice how a slight peach flush
illuminates his whiskers as the sun
rounds the palms and enters at our windows.
And I shall say, As you have, Mr. Mason,
thinking of lost friends, wishing they were here.
And he: Lost friends? Then I should pour the wine.
And I? What shall I say to this kind man
but Yes, my darling, time to pour the wine.
Map to the Stars
BY ADRIAN MATEJKA
 
 
A Schwinn-ride away: Eagledale Plaza. Shopping strip of busted
walkways, crooked parking spaces nicked like the lines
on the sides of somebody’s mom-barbered head. Anchored
by the Piccadilly disco, where a shootout was guaranteed every
weekend, those gun claps: coughing stars shot from sideways
guns shiny enough to light the way for anyone willing to keep
a head up long enough to see. Not me. I bought the Star Map
Shirt for 15¢ at the Value Village next to the Piccadilly during
the daytime. The shirt was polyester with flyaway collars,
outlined in the forgotten astronomies of disco. The shirt’s
washed-out points of light: arranged in horse & hero shapes
& I rocked it in places neither horse nor hero hung out.
Polyester is made from polyethylene & catches fire easily
like wings near a thrift store sun. Polyethylene, used in shampoo
bottles, gun cases, & those grocery sacks skidding like upended
stars across the parking lot. There are more kinds of stars
in this universe than salt granules on drive-thru fries. Too many
stars, lessening & swelling with each pedal pump away from
the Value Village as the electric billboard above flashes first
one DUI attorney, then another who speaks Spanish so the sky
above is constantly chattering, like the biggest disco ball ever.
Die Muhle Brennt—Richard
BY RICHARD MATTHEWS
(after a painting by Georg Bazelitz)
When the red chair suspended in air  grazes the top of your head and the white pitcher that rests on the chair  neither falls nor spills, you will move to the window, or the empty space  in the wall left by the guns on the hill  just outside the city, and be amazed  at the mill ablaze in the distance,  the loud report of dry beams knuckled  under heat, the carousel of shadows spun  around the orange center of the flames,  because you know this cannot happen here  or because you know the mill’s been on fire  for so long that the city’s been consumed  entirely and the heat from the mill  has blistered the red paint on the chair  and dried the water from the pitcher,  and, if you wait one more instant,  afraid that it is too late, it will be too late,  and the chair and pitcher will drift  through your hair as ash.
Ode on Periods
BY BERNADETTE MAYER
the penis is something that fits into the vagina so’s the tampax or sponge therefore Aristotle never thought of women at all the penis like a tree fits into mouth, hands and asshole too it can be the subject of an academic poem disguised as a sloop, catapult or catamaran’s mastpole never the monthly menstruation will she belie tradition’s bloody demagoguery enough to appear in the rough in a poem in a monthly I dream I had a deep cut on my finger filled with a delicious tofu cake and when you took off your clothes your penis was among them hanging by a cord on a hook I took it down hoping its disassociation from being would not thus prevent its manly erection from existing and therefore I tried it out and it went well such as license as mine perhaps made it swell independent I think the world is all fucked up in many ways (see footnotes) and one of these is the apparent interdiction in dumb poetic tradition of speaking of and being heard on the glories of sublime menstruation  I first got my period when I was twelve the day my father died at least I knew what it was, some girls didn’t then we were told you can’t go swimming but don’t you wanna have 	children so much for confessionalism I won’t call on the moon like in a real poem or anthropology or the bible or talk about being untouchable or power etc. I’ve nothing at all to say but to exercise my freedom to speak about everything  now that poems’ve got everything in them even rhetoric and dailiness plus the names of things again including flowers like the spotted touch-me-not so inviting to hummingbirds and I’m writing one I’d like to mention or say blatantly I got my period today probably like nobody certainly in the nineteenth century ever did and if you really wanna know most of us you know all get ours on the same day no kidding and we talk about it frequently and peripatetically Alice with Peggy Peggy with Marion Marion with me me 	with Anne Anne with Alice Peggy with me Grace with Peggy Marion with Grace  So Friends! Hold the bloody sponge up! For all to see!
[Sonnet] You jerk you didn't call me up
BY BERNADETTE MAYER
You jerk you didn't call me up
I haven't seen you in so long
You probably have a fucking tan
& besides that instead of making love tonight
You're drinking your parents to the airport
I'm through with you bourgeois boys
All you ever do is go back to ancestral comforts
Only money can get—even Catullus was rich but
Nowadays you guys settle for a couch
By a soporific color cable t.v. set
Instead of any arc of love, no wonder
The G.I. Joe team blows it every other time
Wake up! It's the middle of the night
You can either make love or die at the hands of the Cobra Commander
I DON'T LIKE YOU
by Monica McClure
If we were fighting over a baby
I would just let you keep it
so the stress of parenting would age you
I would get drunk
on Diet Coke, grenadine, and vodka
and show up at the Baptism
with the only man who ever
broke your heart
I want you to feel like cutting
and then I want you to feel nothing
All my life I've grasped for a raft
on the sargasso sea of my moods
I amputate myself and tuck
the Swarovsky crystals 
in my cunt like I’m going
for a stint at juvy with a 
rolled sandwich bag of weed
Could your lover come over and help me
feel like I'm of use to mankind
There's a knife under my fainting couch
that I'll use
to chop off your passé bangs
I looked at the scuff marks 
on my Louboutins but couldn’t focus
on what to do about it
You are pretty, I admit 
with the right instagram filter 
recasting the ontological relationship
of beauty and time 
I like this faded Nashville 
the name of the city where I bled myself
into a flute of Dom Perignon
until it turned pink
in the light 
Macha
BY MONICA MCCLURE
All my feelings are
different and this one
is the most
Of all places here
where women once retired
from the men for fear
of boring them
I am so bloody in my own bath
of wild hairs
that I couldn't possibly
join you tonight
for that colonial thing
Heroin or whore
Babylon or Bethlehem
No matter what I'm followed by
mosquitos
Flitting dicks who want me
to teach them about themselves
But everything I know is contained in capsules
of macha that break down
in my bloodstream
And I wouldn't recommend it
for the fairer sex
who should buck up and study up
on their condition
I used to feel sick for all my sloth
but not anymore
In wanting to please
I have sinned
In leaning in I have sinned
In breaking in two
I feel sin
So
Vete ya
A haircut and a hard cock
is all I need
To govern a family
My rod
cutting them down 
supplicant on the ground
For I was the first real white girl ever born
in this country of flat skulls
That's why I'm so cocky
with my staff
and my rule rock hard and inconsistent
with my favor
The mouths of L'Age d'Or
sucked well at my pre-war stockings
before cocktail hour
Bells rang and trays of mosquitos
were served with tarts
We hadn't meant to kill them with La Macha
which includes but is not limited to:
a goddess religion
unfaultering at the altar of shade
an erotics of object-identification
and compassion extending beyond the grave
My sister and I drank mournfully but afterwards
we still danced all night
wearing quite literally bedazzled bustiers
and veils of a dead boy's smoke
que mala after beating their macho dead
in ultra-feminine swoops
How do they want us to think of them now
our brothers haviing left so little charisma behind
on the internet
to aggrandize
Such small mosquitos
And though we are mourning we are still so macha
as we chip the thin teeth of traitors
and huff the scent of babies
and slap each other on the asses
and father seven times
and punish the bull
with its own marbled horns
But though we're cocky we are still martyrs
My sister says quita la macha
and I'm like why
It's okay to make up slogans in the spirit of revolution
and she's like ok but
after you systematically destroy machismo you must
put his teeth to gnash at your engorged breasts
for any sort of catagenesis to occur
and I'm like that could be hot
But it isn't the new love
conceived by and for macha
or is it?
idk
idk either
i really dk
So we taught our brothers all these methods of cameo
that they may take a small symbol of macha
to wear around their necks
to the part of culture where the money
used to be kept
May they remember the strength
of their mother's biceps as they show mercy
to their fathers who are teleological
till the end of supremacy
which is the beginning of macha
Kiss the black lips that feed you
the corn hips that rock you
and blight the prayers after you've said them
Santa Mala
Madre de Mala
ruega por nosotros pecadores
ahora y en la ahora de nuestra muerte 
Hand me my beads
War without end
Amén
The Chamber
By Michael McClure
for Jack Kerouac 
IN LIGHT ROOM IN DARK HELL IN UMBER IN CHROME,
 	I sit feeling the swell of the cloud made about by movement
 
 	of arm leg and tongue. In reflections of gold
 	light. Tints and flashes of gold and amber spearing
 	and glinting. Blur glass…blue Glass,
 
 	black telephone. Matchflame of violet and flesh
 	seen in the clear bright light. It is not night
 
	and night too. In Hell, there are stars outside.
	And long sounds of cars. Brown shadows on walls
 	in the light
 	of the room. I sit or stand
 
 	wanting the huge reality of touch and love.
	In the turned room. Remember the long-ago dream
 
	of stuffed animals (owl, fox) in a dark shop. Wanting
 	only the purity of clean colors and new shapes
 	and feelings.
 	I WOULD CRY FOR THEM USELESSLY
 
 	I have ten years left to worship my youth
 	 Billy the Kid, Rimbaud, Jean Harlow
IN DARK HELL IN LIGHT ROOM IN UMBER AND CHROME I
	feel the swell of
smoke the drain and flow of motion of exhaustion, the long sounds of cars
 	the brown shadows
on the wall. I sit or stand. Caught in the net of glints from corner table to
 	 	dull plane
from knob to floor, angles of flat light, daggers of beams. Staring at love’s face.
	The telephone in cataleptic light. Marchflames of blue and red seen in the
	 clear grain.
I see myself—ourselves—in Hell without radiance. Reflections that we are.
 
	The long cars make sounds and brown shadows over the wall.
 
 		I am real as you are real whom I speak to.
 	I raise my head, see over the edge of my nose. Look up
 
	and see that nothing is changed. There is no flash
	to my eyes. No change to the room.
 
	 Vita Nuova—No! The dead, dead world.
 	The strain of desire is only a heroic gesture.
 	An agony to be so in pain without release
 
 	when love is a word or kiss.
Your True Season
BY MONICA MCCLURE
Because urbanites can't look at mountains
we dress ourselves like birds of paradise
in falsies and teeter
on Alexander McQueen flamingos
clutching gold knuckles to our breasts
Bodice make me bold tonight and if I die
before I wake let this embryo inside me never take
hold of my uterine lining for my
24-inch waistline's sake
When I was a girl I would rip the yellow
OBGYN listings out of the phone book
and watch them sail on a river so refractive
I'd swear it wore French skincare products
The song of doves was prelapsarian
They answered each other always like
poor Echo in her cave
wailing "There is only subjective truth!"
which was a statement never heard before
repeated so many times it lost all its power
No body just the history of her libidinal choices
I had not thought to compare the ego
 to a video game because I was so deep in it
I was all drives and instincts
This is why one should never try to explain
art with personal experience
Still I plan to take full control of the situation
by annihilating meaning
I lost my virginity on a fence post
I lost it to my middle finger
And I was like a balloon full of saline
when I straddled a balance beam
This is how I lost it
like a circus girl somersaulting
for the thrill of her inner spectator
When A Man Hasn't Been Kissed
by Jeffrey McDaniel
When I haven't been kissed in a long time, 
I walk behind well-dressed women
on cold, December mornings and shovel
the steamy exhalations pluming from their lips
down my throat with both hands, hoping
a single molecule will cling to my lungs.
When I haven't been kissed in a long time, 
I sneak into the ladies room of a fancy restaurant, 
dig into the trashcan for a napkin
where a woman checked her lipstick, 
then go home, light candles, put on Barry White, 
and press the napkin all over my body.
When I haven't been kissed in a long time, 
I start thinking leeches are the most romantic
creatures, cause all they want to do is kiss.
If only someone invented a kinder, gentler leech, 
I'd paint it bright pink and pretend
Winona Ryder's lips crawled off her face, 
up my thigh, and were sucking on my swollen
bicep. When I haven't been kissed
in a long time, I create civil disturbances, 
then insult the cops who show up, 
till one of them grabs me by the collar
and hurls me up against the squad car, 
so I can remember, at least for a moment, 
what it's like to be touched.
The Prose Poem
Campbell McGrath
On the map it is precise and rectilinear as a chessboard, though driving past you would hardly notice it, this boundary line or ragged margin, a shallow swale that cups a simple trickle of water, less rill than rivulet, more gully than dell, a tangled ditch grown up throughout with a fearsome assortment of wildflowers and bracken. There is no fence, though here and there a weathered post asserts a former claim, strands of fallen wire taken by the dust. To the left a cornfield carries into the distance, dips and rises to the blue sky, a rolling plain of green and healthy plants aligned in close order, row upon row upon row. To the right, a field of wheat, a field of hay, young grasses breaking the soil, filling their allotted land with the rich, slow-waving spectacle of their grain. As for the farmers, they are, for the most part, indistinguishable: here the tractor is red, there yellow; here a pair of dirty hands, there a pair of dirty hands. They are cultivators of the soil. They grow crops by pattern, by acre, by foresight, by habit. What corn is to one, wheat is to the other, and though to some eyes the similarities outweigh the differences it would be as unthinkable for the second to commence planting corn as for the first to switch over to wheat. What happens in the gully between them is no concern of theirs, they say, so long as the plough stays out, the weeds stay in the ditch where they belong, though anyone would notice the wind-sewn cornstalks poking up their shaggy ears like young lovers run off into the bushes, and the kinship of these wild grasses with those the farmer cultivates is too obvious to mention, sage and dun-colored stalks hanging their noble heads, hoarding exotic burrs and seeds, and yet it is neither corn nor wheat that truly flourishes there, nor some jackalopian hybrid of the two. What grows in that place is possessed of a beauty all its own, ramshackle and unexpected, even in winter, when the wind hangs icicles from the skeletons of briars and small tracks cross the snow in search of forgotten grain; in the spring the little trickle of water swells to welcome frogs and minnows, a muskrat, a family of turtles, nesting doves in the verdant grass; in summer it is a thoroughfare for raccoons and opossums, field mice, swallows and black birds, migrating egrets, a passing fox; in autumn the geese avoid its abundance, seeking out windrows of toppled stalks, fatter grain more quickly discerned, more easily digested. Of those that travel the local road, few pay that fertile hollow any mind, even those with an eye for what blossoms, vetch and timothy, early forsythia, the fatted calf in the fallow field, the rabbit running for cover, the hawk’s descent from the lightning-struck tree. You’ve passed this way yourself many times, and can tell me, if you would, do the formal fields end where the valley begins, or does everything that surrounds us emerge from its embrace?
Villanelle
by Campbell McGrath
Bouncing along like a punch-drunk bell,
its Provencal shoes too tight for English feet,
the villanelle is a form from hell.
Balletic as a tapir, strong as a gazelle,
strict rhyme and formal meter keep a beat
as tiresome as a punch-drunk bell
hop talking hip hop at the IHOP - no substitutions
on menu items, no fries with the chimichanga,
no extra syrup - what the hell
was that? Where did my rhyme go - uh, compel -
almost missed it again, damn, can you feel the heat
coming off this sucker? Red hot! Ding! (Sound of a bell.)
Hey, do I look like a bellhop to you, like an el-
evator operator, like a trained monkey or a parakeet
singing in my cage? Get the hell
out of the Poetry Hotel!
defeat mesquite tis mete repeat
Bouncing along like a punch-drunk bell,
the villanelle is a form from - Write it! - hell.
I Knew I’d Sing
BY HEATHER McHUGH
A few sashay, a few finagle.
Some make whoopee, some 
make good. But most make
diddley-squat. I tell you this
is what I love about 
America – The words it puts
in my mouth. The mouth where once
my mother rubbed
a word away with soap. The word
was cunt. She stuck that bar
of family-size in there
until there was no hole to speak of,
so she hoped. But still 
I’m full of it – the cunt,
the prick, short u, short i
the words that stood
for her and him. I loved the thing
they must have done, the love they must 
have made, to make
an example of me. After my lunch of Ivory I said
vagina for a day or two, but knew
from that day forth which word
struck home like sex itself. I knew
when I was big I’d sing
a song in praise of cunt – I’d want
to keep my word, the one with teeth in it.
Forevermore (and even after I was raised) I swore
Nothing – but nothing – would be beneath me.
What He Thought
BY HEATHER MCHUGH
For Fabbio Doplicher
We were supposed to do a job in Italy and, full of our feeling for ourselves (our sense of being Poets from America) we went from Rome to Fano, met the Mayor, mulled a couple matters over. The Italian literati seemed bewildered by the language of America: they asked us what does “flat drink” mean? and the mysterious “cheap date” (no explanation lessened this one’s mystery). Among Italian writers we  could recognize our counterparts: the academic, the apologist, the arrogant, the amorous, the brazen and the glib. And there was one administrator (The Conservative), in suit of regulation gray, who like a good tour guide with measured pace and uninflected tone narrated sights and histories the hired van hauled us past. Of all he was most politic-- and least poetic-- so it seemed. Our last few days in Rome  I found a book of poems this unprepossessing one had written: it was there in the pensione room (a room he’d recommended) where it must have been abandoned by the German visitor (was there a bus of them?) to whom he had inscribed and dated it a month before. I couldn’t read Italian either, so I put the book back in the wardrobe’s dark. We last Americans  were due to leave tomorrow. For our parting evening then our host chose something in a family restaurant, and there we sat and chatted, sat and chewed, till, sensible it was our last big chance to be Poetic, make our mark, one of us asked  “What’s poetry? Is it the fruits and vegetables and marketplace at Campo dei Fiori  or the statue there?” Because I was the glib one, I identified the answer instantly, I didn’t have to think-- “The truth is both, it’s both!” I blurted out. But that was easy. That was easiest to say. What followed taught me something about difficulty,   for our underestimated host spoke out all of a sudden, with a rising passion, and he said:  The statue represents Giordano Bruno, brought to be burned in the public square because of his offence against authority, which was to say the Church. His crime was his belief the universe does not revolve around the human being: God is no fixed point or central government but rather is poured in waves, through all things: all things move. “If God is not the soul itself, he is the soul OF THE SOUL of the world.” Such was his heresy. The day they brought him forth to die  they feared he might incite the crowd (the man was famous for his eloquence). And so his captors placed upon his face an iron mask in which he could not speak.  That is how they burned him. That is how he died,  without a word, in front of everyone. And poetry--  (we’d all put down our forks by now, to listen to the man in gray; he went on softly)-- poetry  is what he thought, but did not say.
This Pantsuit Cannot Contain Us
BY MARC MCKEE
 
I love how your all-terrain vehicle bursts from the closet
carrying a pipe and admiring itself 
in the broken mirror,
I love how it becomes a hummingbird 
on the side of a steep hill 
refusing to be obliterated by the sun. 
I love a thundercloud in a tangerine, the wing of a tree limb 
so that you think the trees will be soon aloft 
in the unexpected storm,
how your vehicle all-terrain slinks and gnashes,
how the scroll of its wake 
seems a superfluous story so discontingent 
we throw ourselves into rivers
and at the opening of the cave I love standing
as first a few looping scouts and then a gush of bats
reverse-whirlpool into the sky, the sun bleeding as usual,
invisible cork popped from disfigured champagne bottle,
hundreds of thousands of wobbly, pregnant huntresses 
and sudden scatters and breaks 
in the swarm/flock/murder/mob/colony's tight formation 
like the glue soup of homemade bombs parting
only the screws and nails are quiet and gentle in the air
as drifting sheets of paper.
I love how your all-terrain vehicle's mirrors are ears 
and scrape the road when the road is a road 
and trembling behind you
more than the ear can hold,
that it can still at this late stage be astonished.
There are those who refuse to believe in the capacity of the body
to withstand, to dole out, to make of soothing a Real
that leaches into other feeling things in existence
but I am not one of them. Exhibit 
alphabet: Your all-terrain vehicle. It gets fucked 
into giddy moments of oblivion 
and I love that. I love the breathing deeply, 
the circling back to yourself, the slow dents of cool 
in a body after it has been an engine of fire 
and how in love, vehicle, in awe, even the air 
is a consoling gesture.
 
 
 
 
 
PERSUASION
-Joyelle McSweeney
Others were more economical than I. But I
had my red marble. I had action
figures weighting down the drapes
on tiny threads. That twisted and got smaller.
One door led
to a more economical room.
Perhaps a more economical view. The girl
across the hall was the same girl.
I climbed out across the telephone wires. I thought
they'd hold me, like the webbing of a lawn chair,
and like a wedding or a lawnchair they didn't. I kept
pulling chunks out of the hummock. I fell with my
fists full of humus. Into, of course.
At home the state-painter was painting the ghost oak. And
the window around the oak. The room around
you-know-who.
She came from the same
town in Iceland.
Whither and whence I
came. O-ho!
With her eye
she came and came.
With her weather
eye she came.
I saw the damage this was doing to the van
would not cost six hundred dollars.
I pedaled off in my car.
My car got smaller.
It wouldn't fit my littlest brother!
It fell over.
Fell, of course, into.
Back at the ranch, it was a tenement.
I was a tenant of the studio-apartment.
I was building a house in French.
Expectorant--I was self-enlightened,
my efforts self-directed and sustained.
To the tune of eighty-seven dollars
I debated a suitable depth. A squirrel
at each level of the fence
with an apple for a face looked on blandly.
I mean red. Red-faced. Blindly.
Heavenly stage set comes
in on wheels and wheels around.
The fish wind up the concrete ladder
because they believe it's better
to reach a higher part of the rive.
to pour themselves out
while I pour myself into
the form that has survived.
my father leaves tomorrow
and he leaves this
afternoon. This is before
I set fire to my room,
pouring water in the electric baseboards
trying to wash a tiny brine shrimp
off the wall. It might have lived.
This is after my mother,
her father dead. Lay in bed.
Heard the Skylark song
Babel / Pastoral
By Lo Kwa Mei-en
After summer. All revel all ransack oh, in the stable we neck. We break
thee on the bastion of. Sore? No sire, sicker. Negative blooms of horses
strain at air, a red surf—men restrain, sunny horror sung, or hit replay:
crack calls a trigger concluding the mane I love—country sides made a me
after spring. Half true was thy keepers whipped up a purity purely you
and you. As war gets war so you a soft cuss of flesh for it’s natural and
all, neat sunset disaster, dowry cantered on. Rude bridle on a ragéd bride,
chest of cut weeds want creeped is to love prettily (my weathers change
the door on the lock). All revere all revolve at duet, machine and password.
Want pit cracks a diphthong wasted on desire, lowing, left thee wanting
more than you. Heroic light left on, oh in the stable we ogle the damned:
thy handle, thy door. Thy trophy gully outside rots to heaven; the hard
up of ever onwards funnels to feed a stable of kings stable under tower.
Kicked in? No sir, sucker. Taking sides made a me, violently. War fruits
rolling in stress the wagon, deadpan wheel of hallelujah making me and
you. Citizen, check the undercarriage of that legend, it’s true. We came
together then, too. A fire to lock thy rule like hot iron on mule can’t wait
for summer. For the smell can fuck the free field and ricochet off horses
rang to apple flesh now dappled red, ruin carried on a wind, wind’s name
run through the stable door, the girl slammed to it, a vowel unbearable
and terribly light.
pinnochia on fire
By Lo Kwa Mei-En
There is a line that could make you love me really, 
	 	but reeling, I spend the words like virgin coin for 
a real girl on the line. When things got bad, all star 
	 	-light began to prick. So I kept the sky returnable, 
sad wheel. My arm the mayday flare, leg a picnic’s 
	 	pyro dahlia—when I go up I’ll keep my head on 
a pillow when I can, see back to sea, say a syllable 
	 	is a hook. And the word for my wick of a tongue 
you’ll find between my teeth. You want me ultra 
	 	-lingual, ready-maid, but I’m a match head to head 
in the gutter, and the gutter creaks above the main 
	 	avenue of heaven. I kept myself bony dry, a sugar 
cube of vermouth: I cut myself by the grain, cool 
	 	and slender as a fuse with a sister; I missed her over 
over over like a bullet train shooting past myself 
	 	through the tunnel of a broken heart, and on time, 
not mine. But I light up like an obscene October 
	 	sky celebrating a stroke of war. When all still burns 
from all I see, the taste of ash a horny flower on 
	 	a hard female tongue, say holiday. Say harvest. Stay 
back. Stand back, trigger this. I’ll keep it real, go 
	 	hurt something to love it, real, good, find the center 
of aurora in me, the second of ignition. Hothouse 
	 	flower scheming the heart of the firework, I’ll hurt 
to keep wild tonight. A sky for my savage cross 
	 	-haired wheeling under; a field of soon-cool stars’ 
temperature and light, so hot, so real, I come alive.
The Swiss Just Do Whatever 
By Sharon Mesmer
The Swiss just do whatever
like masturbating their doink-doinks
deep in rural France
in the shadow of Mont Blanc.
 
Heavy, dependable
and prepared for whatever
the Swiss vago-simulacrum recognizes
as larder
 
King Hussein and President Fabio,
always just about to touch each other
on their devolved sparkle-offs
and Neil Patrick Harris appreciation pages.
 
Everyone knows when these bizarre Swiss cometh
they cometh with fluffy Beatles-like
six packs of shit-covered reindeer
knock-knocking like a bummer.
 
Glitter is the Swiss Army knife
of the most bedazzlingly ridiculous
emotions: the part just before
the paranoid cheese-maker says,
 
“Whatever you do in Palm Springs,
don’t yodel”—a most unusual Swiss Miss
mixture of very early skunk and the robotic
sadness of women’s mold
 
heavy, greasy, dense and low, like
lethargic sea-green gardens
with a buzz overpowering, like
modern outdoor inbreeding.
 
You know you’re Swiss when,
when foreign visitors ask to see your
chocolate factory, you answer,
“Why don’t you and Hannibal Lecter
 
just kick out the jams?”
’Cause you know you got the chamber,
the chair,
and Fear Factor.
Photograph of People Dancing in France
BY LESLIE ADRIENNE MILLER
It’s true that you don’t know them--nor do I  know what I wanted their movement to say  when I tucked them in an envelope with words  for you. I thought it was my life caught  in a warm night. I believed myself loved  by the wan and delicate man you see dancing  against the drop-off behind them all. But you  can’t see that they are on a mountain, that  just beyond the railings is a ravine, abrupt  and studded with thorn, beyond it, a river,  dry bed of stone that, by the time you take  the photo from the envelope, will have filled  with green foam of cold torrents from high  in the Alps. This is France, you think, as you look  at the people dancing, but there is nothing of France  visible save one branch of a tree close enough  to catch in their hair. I could tell you that by the time  you see this picture, the young girl with the long jaw  launching her bared navel at the lens will have bedded  the man you’re afraid of losing me to. There is food  on the table, French food, and so more beautiful for that,  green olives in brine, a local cake in paper lace,  sliced tomatoes that look in the flash like flesh  with their red spill of curve and seed. I could tell you  they grew not twenty meters from the table  where you see them, that I picked them one day  with the small woman who bares her breasts  in this photo because she is about to leave us and doesn’t know any other way to say she is sad.  They’re alive is all you’ll say of the scene, which  is to say you feel you’re not. It is November  by the time I’ve thought to send you the photo,  by the time I feel myself ready to part with the image.  By then, the woman of the manifest breasts has left us,  and the one with the dark eyes who loved her  has darker eyes. Very soon after this dancing stopped,  the man with the hollow cheeks took the girl  of the ripe navel to his bed because he, like you,  is so afraid of dying, he invites it daily, to try him.  The girl’s last lover was a boy on heroin in Cairo  with the possible end of them both asleep in his blood, and now too in the blood of the lover I wanted  to save. Because you are married to a woman  who insists on wearing her dead sister’s clothes,  you understand that while I am not in this picture,  I am in this picture. Know that I need never see it again  to see: the incessant knot of the girl’s navel is a fist,  an oily wad of sweet-sour girl flesh, a ball of tissue  I twisted and crushed all of that evening, and since.  You refuse to remember her name, or his, because you want  to be my lover again, and the others must be kept  abstract. They were alive you say again, not more,  because the heart is nothing if not a grave. You want me  because your wife holds out her familiar wrist to you  in the terrible sleeve of her dead sister’s dress,  because I reach for the gaunt cheek of the man  who worships at the luminous inch of belly on the girl  who lifts her arms from the body of a boy none of us  will ever know in Cairo, the girl, who dead center  in the photo, lifts the potent, mocking extravagance of her flash-drenched arms, and dances for us all.
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN AS GROCERY BAGGER
MICHAEL MLEKODAY
 
One time I stole a pear.
Another day, three pounds of beef.
The pear was so hard, I threw it
through the window of an SUV
in the parking lot after dark
and the sound of it sang
like the first home run in spring.
I knew a guy who always knew
how to play the piano—
just sat down one day for the first time
and pulled a song out of the thing
like starting a new lawnmower.
I swear he rode that parlor grand
around the block, prettying up
the days of strangers.
So suburban, the piano.
I was always a lousy pickpocket.
My hands are swift as rust.
But I can stare into a shopper’s eyes
like a priest and know their sins.
I know they dream of being dragged
from their homes in the almost-heat of May
and called devil! for staring too long
at the checkout girl’s mouth or
getting high once a month in the garage
while the kids are sleeping
but never for the way they shop,
never for ignoring rot.
The day I stole the beef, I
stepped out of work early,
thawing meat beneath my jacket,
and dripped blood the whole way home,
reddening lawns and sidewalks.
The puddle I left on my doorstep
was almost warm.
SELF-PORTRAIT AS IRON RANGE
-Michael Mlekoday
 
 Yesterday, I took woodcutting lessons
from a chainsaw. My body was fast
and oblivious. I tilted my head
further and further as I watched
the machine disappear and reappear.
Somebody must have lifted me
from the grass like I wasn’t filled with iron ore,
like I wasn’t a small town in the North. I
became a belly of earth and immigrants
lined up in front of me with pickaxes.
Still, now. Spill, now.
There was a man with cuts
on his knuckles like little hungry snakes,
and two women who fell asleep
standing, dropped their axes,
and severed their big toes.
The digits burned through the ground
as meteors might.
There were more: children
with the teeth of animals;
animals circling themselves,
trying to lick the blood from their sides;
floating pickaxes; fires starting everywhere;
people whispering steam
as if it were the name of some angry god;
flotsam on the lake.
I grew tired of being a mine.
They built more and more machines around me,
but I did not become a hospital bed.
They traded what they tore from me
for food, but I did not become a field.
Then there was a city nearby.
Then I was filled with yellow birds.
Then I was left alone at night.
Then I got to thinking.
From “The Sonnagrams”
BY K. SILEM MOHAMMAD
on thoth’s tits
From Sonnet 75 (“So are you to my thoughts as food to life”)
A groovy day, a fish fillet, an elf hair,
A cosmonaut, a microdot, a hoedown,
A trusty door, the finest whore on welfare,
A neocon who’s keeping on the lowdown,
A purple fist, a Federalist, a sunspot,
A bird that’s got a big big butt to study,
A guy named Toots, ten dumb galoots, a gunshot,
Die Fledermaus by good ol’ Strauss (my buddy),
A grinning troll, a real a-hole, a smiler,
A dude who knows a gushing hose is funny,
An underdressed (no tie, no vest) John Tyler,
A sexy flirt, a cowboy shirt — oh honey!
I’ll flip you for a dinosaur, my sweeties,
When Uncle Pete lets Usher eat our Wheaties.

uh huh: hi, hula tooth
From Sonnet 135 (“Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy Will”)
Will refried catnip addicts find a cure?
Will daytime televangelists go broke?
Will Algorithmic Horses go on tour?
Will nineteen shekels buy one thin, thin Coke?
Will innovative inverts be reported?
Will weasel-human hybrids rent a maid?
Will hesitating oxen get aborted?
Will analysts of real estate get laid?
Will hoochie-coochie nuns remove their mink?
Will enemies of hotness shut it down?
Will tame aphasic mynahs learn to think?
Will Hi-Ho hunt the hound in Ho-Ho town?
Will Willy Loman eat a thousand ants?
Will Willa Cather do that nasty dance?
NOTES: My process for composing sonnagrams is as follows: I feed one of Shakespeare’s sonnets into an internet anagram engine, generating fourteen lines of text that is quantitatively equivalent to Shakespeare’s poem at the level of the letter. I then rearrange this text, clicking and dragging letter by letter until I have a new English sonnet. All leftover letters are used to make up a title.
Critics and Connoisseurs
BY MARIANNE MOORE
There is a great amount of poetry in unconscious
 fastidiousness. Certain Ming
products, imperial floor coverings of coach—
 wheel yellow, are well enough in their way but I have seen something
 that I like better—a
mere childish attempt to make an imperfectly ballasted animal stand up
similar determination to make a pup
 eat his meat from the plate.
I remember a swan under the willows in Oxford,
 with flamingo-colored, maple—
leaflike feet. It reconnoitered like a battle
 ship. Disbelief and conscious fastidiousness were
 ingredients in its
disinclination to move. Finally its hardihood was not proof against its
proclivity to more fully appraise such bits
 of food as the stream
bore counter to it; made away with what I gave it
 to eat. I have seen this swan and
I have seen you; I have seen ambition without
 understanding in a variety of forms. Happening to stand
 by an ant-hill, I have
seen a fastidious ant carrying a stick north, south, east, west, till it turned on
itself, struck out from the flower bed into the lawn,
 and returned to the point
from which it had started. Then abandoning the stick as
 useless and overtaxing its
jaws with a particle of whitewash pill-like but
 heavy, it again went through the same course of procedure. What is
 there in being able
to say that one has dominated the stream in an attitude of self-defense,
in proving that one has had the experience
 of carrying a stick?

Poetry
BY MARIANNE MOORE
I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle.  Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers in  it after all, a place for the genuine. Hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate, hair that can rise  if it must, these things are important not because a  high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are  useful. When they become so derivative as to become unintelligible,  the same thing may be said for all of us, that we do not admire what we cannot understand: the bat  holding on upside down or in quest of something to   eat, elephants pushing, a wild horse taking a roll, a tireless wolf under  a tree, the immovable critic twitching his skin like a horse that feels a flea, the base-  ball fan, the statistician-- nor is it valid  to discriminate against "business documents and  school-books"; all these phenomena are important. One must make a distinction  however: when dragged into prominence by half poets, the result is not poetry,  nor till the poets among us can be  "literalists of the imagination"--above  insolence and triviality and can present  for inspection, "imaginary gardens with real toads in them," shall we have  it. In the meantime, if you demand on the one hand,  the raw material of poetry in all its rawness and that which is on the other hand  genuine, you are interested in poetry.
When I Am Asked
BY LISEL MUELLER
When I am asked 
how I began writing poems, 
I talk about the indifference of nature. 
It was soon after my mother died, 
a brilliant June day, 
everything blooming. 
I sat on a gray stone bench 
in a lovingly planted garden, 
but the day lilies were as deaf 
as the ears of drunken sleepers 
and the roses curved inward. 
Nothing was black or broken 
and not a leaf fell 
and the sun blared endless commercials 
for summer holidays. 
I sat on a gray stone bench 
ringed with the ingenue faces 
of pink and white impatiens 
and placed my grief 
in the mouth of language, 
the only thing that would grieve with me.
As
BY PAUL MULDOON
As naught gives way to aught
and oxhide gives way to chain mail
and byrnie gives way to battle-ax
and Cavalier gives way to Roundhead
and Cromwell Road gives way to the Connaught
and I Am Curious (Yellow) gives way to I Am Curious (Blue)
and barrelhouse gives way to Frank’N’Stein
and a pint of Shelley plain to a pint of India Pale Ale 
I give way to you.
As bass gives way to baritone
and hammock gives way to hummock
and Hoboken gives way to Hackensack
and bread gives way to reed bed
and bald eagle gives way to Theobald Wolfe Tone 
and the Undertones give way to Siouxsie Sioux 
and DeLorean, John, gives way to Deloria, Vine, 
and Pierced Nose to Big Stomach
I give way to you.
As vent gives way to Ventry
and the King of the World gives way to Finn MacCool 
and phone gives way to fax
and send gives way to sned
and Dagenham gives way to Coventry
and Covenanter gives way to caribou
and the caribou gives way to the carbine
and Boulud’s cackamamie to the cock-a-leekie of Boole 
I give way to you.
As transhumance gives way to trance
and shaman gives way to Santa
and butcher’s string gives way to vacuum pack 
and the ineffable gives way to the unsaid 
and pyx gives way to monstrance
and treasure aisle gives way to need-blind pew 
and Calvin gives way to Calvin Klein
and Town and Country Mice to Hanta 
I give way to you.
As Hopi gives way to Navaho
and rug gives way to rag
and Pax Vobiscum gives way to Tampax
and Tampa gives way to the water bed
and The Water Babies gives way to Worstward Ho
and crapper gives way to loo
and spruce gives way to pine
and the carpet of pine needles to the carpetbag 
I give way to you.
As gombeen-man gives way to not-for-profit 
and soft soap gives way to Lynn C. Doyle 
and tick gives way to tack
and Balaam’s Ass gives way to Mister Ed
and Songs of Innocence gives way to The Prophet
and single-prop Bar-B-Q gives way to twin-screw 
and the Salt Lick gives way to the County Line 
and “Mending Wall” gives way to “Build Soil” 
I give way to you.
As your hummus gives way to your foul madams 
and your coy mistress gives way to “The Flea”
and flax gives way to W. D. Flackes 
and the living give way to the dead
and John Hume gives way to Gerry Adams 
and Television gives way to U2
and Lake Constance gives way to the Rhine 
and the Rhine to the Zuider Zee 
I give way to you.
As dutch treat gives way to french leave 
and spanish fly gives way to Viagra 
and slick gives way to slack
and the local fuzz give way to the Feds 
and Machiavelli gives way to make-believe
and Howards End gives way to A Room with a View
and Wordsworth gives way to “Woodbine
Willie” and stereo Nagra to quad Niagara 
I give way to you.
As cathedral gives way to cavern
and cookie cutter gives way to cookie
and the rookies give way to the All-Blacks 
and the shad give way to the smoke shed
and the roughshod give way to the Black Horse tavern
that still rings true
despite that T being missing from its sign 
where a little nook gives way to a little nookie 
when I give way to you.
That Nanook of the North should give way to Man of Aran
as ling gives way to cod
and cod gives way to kayak
and Camp Moosilauke gives way to Club Med 
and catamite gives way to catamaran
and catamaran to aluminum canoe
is symptomatic of a more general decline 
whereby a cloud succumbs to a clod
and I give way to you.
For as Monet gives way to Juan Gris
and Juan Gris gives way to Joan Miró
and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer gives way to Miramax
and the Volta gives way to Travolta, swinging the red-hot lead, 
and Saturday Night Fever gives way to Grease
and the Greeks give way to you know who
and the Roman IX gives way to the Arabic 9
and nine gives way, as ever, to zero
I give way to you.
Any Lit
BY HARRYETTE MULLEN
You are a ukulele beyond my microphone
You are a Yukon beyond my Micronesia
You are a union beyond my meiosis
You are a unicycle beyond my migration
You are a universe beyond my mitochondria
You are a Eucharist beyond my Miles Davis
You are a euphony beyond my myocardiogram
You are a unicorn beyond my Minotaur
You are a eureka beyond my maitai
You are a Yuletide beyond my minesweeper
You are a euphemism beyond my myna bird
You are a unit beyond my mileage
You are a Yugoslavia beyond my mind’s eye
You are a yoo-hoo beyond my minor key
You are a Euripides beyond my mime troupe
You are a Utah beyond my microcosm
You are a Uranus beyond my Miami
You are a youth beyond my mylar
You are a euphoria beyond my myalgia
You are a Ukranian beyond my Maimonides
You are a Euclid beyond my miter box
You are a Univac beyond my minus sign
You are a Eurydice beyond my maestro
You are a eugenics beyond my Mayan
You are a U-boat beyond my mind control
You are a euthanasia beyond my miasma
You are a urethra beyond my Mysore
You are a Euterpe beyond my Mighty Sparrow
You are a ubiquity beyond my minority
You are a eunuch beyond my migraine
You are a Eurodollar beyond my miserliness
You are a urinal beyond my Midol
You are a uselessness beyond my myopia
[Kills bugs dead.]
BY HARRYETTE MULLEN
Kills bugs dead. Redundancy is syntactical overkill. A pin-prick of peace at the end of the tunnel of a nightmare night in a roach motel. Their noise infects the dream. In black kitchens they foul the food, walk on our bodies as we sleep over oceans of pirate flags. Skull and crossbones, they crunch like candy. When we die they will eat us, unless we kill them first. Invest in better mousetraps. Take no prisoners on board ship, to rock the boat, to violate our beds with pestilence. We dream the dream of extirpation. Wipe out a species, with God at our side. Annihilate the insects. Sterilize the filthy vermin
Sleeping with the Dictionary
BY HARRYETTE MULLEN
I beg to dicker with my silver-tongued companion, whose lips are ready to read my shining gloss. A versatile partner, conversant and well-versed in the verbal art, the dictionary is not averse to the solitary habits of the curiously wide-awake reader. In the dark night’s insomnia, the book is a stimulating sedative, awakening my tired imagination to the hypnagogic trance of language. Retiring to the canopy of the bedroom, turning on the bedside light, taking the big dictionary to bed, clutching the unabridged bulk, heavy with the weight of all the meanings between these covers, smoothing the thin sheets, thick with accented syllables—all are exercises in the conscious regimen of dreamers, who toss words on their tongues while turning illuminated pages. To go through all these motions and procedures, groping in the dark for an alluring word, is the poet’s nocturnal mission. Aroused by myriad possibilities, we try out the most perverse positions in the practice of our nightly act, the penetration of the denotative body of the work. Any exit from the logic of language might be an entry in a symptomatic dictionary. The alphabetical order of this ample block of knowledge might render a dense lexicon of lucid hallucinations. Beside the bed, a pad lies open to record the meandering of migratory words. In the rapid eye movement of the poet’s night vision, this dictum can be decoded, like the secret acrostic of a lover’s name.
Hate Mail
BY CAROL MUSKE-DUKES
You are a whore. You are an old whore.
Everyone hates you. God hates you.
He pretty much has had it with all women
But, let me tell you, especially you. You like
To think that you can think faster than
The rest of us—hah! We drive the car
In which you’re a crash dummy! So
Why do you defy our Executive Committee
Which will never cede its floor to you? If a pig
Flew out of a tree & rose to become
A blimp—you would write a poem
About it, ignoring the Greater Good,
The hard facts of gravity. You deserve to be
Flattened by the Greater Good—pigs don’t
Fly, yet your arrogance is that of a blimp
Which has long forgotten its place on this earth.
Big arrogance unmoored from its launch pad
Floating free, up with mangy Canadian honkers,
Up with the spy satellites and the ruined
Ozone layer which is, btw, caused by your breath,
Because you were born to ruin everything, hacking
Into the inspiration of the normal human ego.
You are not Queen Tut, honey, you are not
Even a peasant bar-maid, you are an aristocrat
Of Trash, landmine of exploding rhinestones,
Crown of thorns, cabal of screech-bats!
I am telling you this as an old friend,
Who is offering advice for your own good—
Change now or we will have to Take Measures—
If you know what I mean, which you do—
& now let’s hear one of your fucked-up poems:
let’s hear you refute this truth any way you can.

HI 
by Eileen Myles
 
	for Steve Carey
 
You made me smell.
I didn’t smell at
all before I met you
smells are pouring out of
my clothes, feet, my
socks my hair
this is gross
you’ve made me monstrous
and I love it
I knew a man who laughed
at himself
for being this way
stinking of love
it was what he was
a stinking factory of his love
lying there all day
going out to get a smoke
I’m the east coast version
of that
since I met you
since the era of my famous
resistance to you ended
it began like the wind
I am a window to the world
the mailman can see me
he waves; children out there playing
it’s even this way when I’m out
there
except when I hold your hand
I want it; to be this exception
I’ve become
not a woman or a man
The heart pumps
the man is dead and it’s
spring
it’s a smelly season
don’t you think
the earth knows
the bugs are beginning to look
around
you’re throwing your mother’s
old stuff out
your friends are beginning
to understand
I want to show
mine something different
the ripples I’ve become
I’m influence
the way language changes
and rocks heal & burn
meat stretches
your little round animal
face keeps coming around
the corner but
oh no now you’re coming down
I’m looking up
Snakes
BY EILEEN MYLES
 	for Kathe Izzo
I was 6 and
I lost my snake.
 
The table shook
I can do better
than this
and shambled
to the kitchen
to the scene
of the crime
 
I was green
I put my sneaker
down, little shoe
 
I felt the cold
metal tap
my calf
 
moo and everything
began to change.
I am 6
turned into lightning
wrote on the night
 
At 6, I was feathers
scales, I fell into
the slime of it, lit
 
You think you are six,
it yelled. I am face
to face with a frog
a woman alone
in bed. The square
of the window
persists. I am 6.
 
The phone rings
It’s my sister
blamm I dropped
a plate. Sorry.
 
Now the clouds slide 
by afraid, awake
my feet are cold
but I’m fearless
 
I am 6.
 
Under here
with bottle caps
and stars
adults and low
moans, busses
 
slamming on brakes
I am 6
 
the cake is lit
it’s round
the children
sing. I will never
return. We are
so small.
 
My husband turns
his fevered
face. I put
the medicine
down. Click.
I am 6.
 
The movie rolls on.
Tramping feet,
music blaring
at the end of
the war. I
am frightened
hold my hand
 
The round face
of the woman
upstairs, moving
the faucets, strips
of vegetable
 
slithering down,
her reptile child
will never
return. The telephone
rings. It’s me.
I’m six.
Are All the Break-Ups in Your Poems Real?
BY AIMEE NEZHUKUMATATHIL
If by real you mean as real as a shark tooth stuck
in your heel, the wetness of a finished lollipop stick,
the surprise of a thumbtack in your purse—
then Yes, every last page is true, every nuance,
bit, and bite. Wait. I have made them up—all of them—
and when I say I am married, it means I married
all of them, a whole neighborhood of past loves.
Can you imagine the number of bouquets, how many
slices of cake? Even now, my husbands plan a great meal
for us—one chops up some parsley, one stirs a bubbling pot
on the stove. One changes the baby, and one sleeps
in a fat chair. One flips through the newspaper, another
whistles while he shaves in the shower, and every single
one of them wonders what time I am coming home.
Dear Amy Nehzooukammyatootill,
BY AIMEE NEZHUKUMATATHIL
(a found poem, composed entirely of e-mails from various high school students)
If I were to ask you a question about your book
and sum it up into one word it would be, Why?
I think I like Walt Whitman better than you. I just don't
get literature, but for a fast hour and a half read, your book
 
takes the cake. I like how you organized the lines
in that one poem to represent a growing twisting bonsai tree.
Are you going to get a rude reaction when you meet
that one guy in that one poem? I guess you never know.
 
You are very young to be a poet. I also like how your poems take
up an entire page (it makes our reading assignment go faster).
In class we spend so much time dissecting your poems
and then deeply analyzing them. I think I like Walt Whitman
 
better than you, but don’t take offense—you are very good too!
You are young, You are young and pure and really just want
to have a good time. Thank you we have taken a debate
and you are a far better poet than Walt Whitman. And I loved
 
how your poems were easy to read and understand. Hello
my name is Alicia. We read you book and I just loved it.
We also read Walt Whitman’s Leaves of Grass. There
was no competition there. I liked your book a whole lot better.
 
It was an easy read. But poetry is not my favorite type
of literature. Sometimes I am offered drinks and guys
try to talk to me but I too just brush it off and keep dancing.
Every once and a while the creepy mean guys try to offer you
 
things and then they say something. What would you do?
Lastly, I was wondering if you ever wrote a poem that really
didn’t have a deeper meaning but everyone still tried
to give it one anyways? Walt Whitman is better than you.
excerpts from The Book of Questions
Pablo Neruda, 1904 - 1973   Tell me, is the rose naked or is that her only dress?  Why do trees conceal the splendor of their roots?  Who hears the regrets of the thieving automobile?  Is there anything in the world sadder  than a train standing in the rain?
If I have died and don’t know it 
of whom do I ask the time?
Why do leaves commit suicide 
when they feel yellow?
Is it true that in an anthill 
dreams are a duty?
Love, love, his and hers, if they’ve gone, 
where did they go?
How many weeks are in a day 
and how many years in a month?
When the convict ponders the light
is it the same light that shines on you?
Why don’t the poor understand 
as soon as they stop being poor?
Whom can I ask what I came to 
make happen in this world?
Was it where they lost me 
that I finally found myself?
Will our life be a tunnel 
between two vague clarities?
Do you believe that ahead of you 
grief carries the flag of your destiny?
Does he who is always waiting 
suffer more than he who’s never waited for anyone?
Where is the child I was, 
still inside me or gone?
Does he know that I never loved him 
and that he never loved me?
Why did we spend so much time 
growing up only to separate?
Why did we both not die 
when my childhood died?
What weighs more heavily on the belt, 
sadness or memories?
And what is the name of the month 
that falls between December and January?
And who went out to live for me 
when I was sleeping or sick?
Am I sometimes evil 
or am I always good?
Nothing But Death
BY PABLO NERUDA
There are cemeteries that are lonely, graves full of bones that do not make a sound, the heart moving through a tunnel, in it darkness, darkness, darkness, like a shipwreck we die going into ourselves, as though we were drowning inside our hearts, as though we lived falling out of the skin into the soul.  And there are corpses, feet made of cold and sticky clay, death is inside the bones, like a barking where there are no dogs, coming out from bells somewhere, from graves somewhere, growing in the damp air like tears of rain.   Sometimes I see alone coffins under sail,  embarking with the pale dead, with women that have dead hair, with bakers who are as white as angels, and pensive young girls married to notary publics, caskets sailing up the vertical river of the dead, the river of dark purple, moving upstream with sails filled out by the sound of death, filled by the sound of death which is silence.  Death arrives among all that sound like a shoe with no foot in it, like a suit with no man in it, comes and knocks, using a ring with no stone in it, with no 	finger in it, comes and shouts with no mouth, with no tongue, with no 	throat. Nevertheless its steps can be heard and its clothing makes a hushed sound, like a tree.  I’m not sure, I understand only a little, I can hardly see, but it seems to me that its singing has the color of damp violets, of violets that are at home in the earth, because the face of death is green, and the look death gives is green, with the penetrating dampness of a violet leaf and the somber color of embittered winter.  But death also goes through the world dressed as a broom, lapping the floor, looking for dead bodies, death is inside the broom, the broom is the tongue of death looking for corpses, it is the needle of death looking for thread.  Death is inside the folding cots: it spends its life sleeping on the slow mattresses, in the black blankets, and suddenly breathes out: it blows out a mournful sound that swells the sheets, and the beds go sailing toward a port where death is waiting, dressed like an admiral.
Ode to My Socks
BY PABLO NERUDA
Mara Mori brought me
a pair of socks
which she knitted herself
with her sheepherder's hands,
two socks as soft as rabbits.
I slipped my feet into them
as if they were two cases
knitted with threads of twilight and goatskin,
Violent socks,
my feet were two fish made of wool,
two long sharks
sea blue, shot through
by one golden thread,
two immense blackbirds,
two cannons,
my feet were honored in this way
by these heavenly socks.
They were so handsome for the first time
my feet seemed to me unacceptable
like two decrepit firemen,
firemen unworthy of that woven fire,
of those glowing socks.
Nevertheless, I resisted the sharp temptation
to save them somewhere as schoolboys
keep fireflies,
as learned men collect
sacred texts,
I resisted the mad impulse to put them
in a golden cage and each day give them
birdseed and pieces of pink melon.
Like explorers in the jungle
who hand over the very rare green deer
to the spit and eat it with remorse,
I stretched out my feet and pulled on
the magnificent socks and then my shoes.
The moral of my ode is this:
beauty is twice beauty
and what is good is doubly good
when it is a matter of two socks
made of wool in winter. 
Ode to the Artichoke 
BY PABLO NERUDA (Trans. William Pitt Root)
The tender-hearted
upright
artichoke
girded itself as
a warrior, constructed
a small dome,
to keep itself
waterproof
within
its scales.
At its side
crazy vegetables
ruffled up
in cat-tails and tendrils,
bulbs on the march;
underground
slept
the red-whiskered carrot,
the vineyard
withered the shoots
wine once rose through,
the cabbage
devoted itself
to trying on skirts,
oregano
scented the world,
and right there in the garden
the meek
artichoke,
girded for battle,
burnished
as a grenade,
haughty,
and then one day
it was into the grand
willow basket
with the others and off
to the market
it marched
to fulfill its dream:
the militia!
In columns
never more martial
than at the fair,
men
in their white shirts
among the vegetables
became
field marshals
of the artichokes,
the closed ranks,
the voices of command,
and the sudden detonation
of ... a fumbled cashbox,
but
then
comes
Maria
with her basket,
who fearlessly
picks out
an artichoke,
looking at it, examining it
against the light as if it were an egg,
she buys it,
drops it
into her basket
with a pair of shoes,
a white cabbage and a
bottle
of vinegar as well
then
entering the kitchen
plunges it into the pot.
And so it ends,
in peace,
the career
of the armored vegetable
called "artichoke,"
and presently
scale by scale
we undress
this delight
we munch
the peaceful paste
of its green heart.

DAFFODIL
BY ANGELO NIKOLOPOULOS
A poet could not but be gay.
—William Wordsworth
Don’t you know, sweetheart,
less is more?
Giving yourself away
so quickly
with your eager trumpet,
April’s rentboy
in your flock of clones,
unreasonably cheerful, cellulose,
as yellow as a crow’s foot—please.
I don’t get you.
Maybe it’s me,
always loving what I can’t have,
the bulb refusing itself,
perennial challenge.
I’ve never learned
how to handle kindness
from strangers.
It’s uncomfortable, uncalled-for.
I’d rather have mulch
than three blithe sepals from you.
I’m into piss and vinegar,
brazen disregard,
the minimum-wage indifference
of bark, prickly pear.
Flirtation’s tension:
I dare, don’t dare.
But what would you know
about restraint,
binge-drinking
your way through spring,
botany’s twink bucked
by lycorine, lethal self-esteem?
You who come and go
with the seasons,
bridge and tunnel.
You’re all milk and no cow—
intimacy for beginners.
The blonde-eyed boy stumbling home.
If I were you, I’d pipe down.
Believe me,
I’ve bloomed like you before.

Animals
 
	
Have you forgotten what we were like then
when we were still first rate
and the day came fat with an apple in its mouth
	
it’s no use worrying about Time
but we did have a few tricks up our sleeves
and turned some sharp corners
	
the whole pasture looked like our meal
 we didn’t need speedometers
 we could manage cocktails out of ice and water
	
I wouldn’t want to be faster
or greener than now if you were with me O you
were the best of all my days
 
 
Frank O’Hara
Poem [“The eager note on my door said, ‘Call me,’”]
BY FRANK O'HARA
The eager note on my door said “Call me, 
call when you get in!” so I quickly threw 
a few tangerines into my overnight bag, 
straightened my eyelids and shoulders, and
headed straight for the door. It was autumn 
by the time I got around the corner, oh all
unwilling to be either pertinent or bemused, but 
the leaves were brighter than grass on the sidewalk!
Funny, I thought, that the lights are on this late 
and the hall door open; still up at this hour, a 
champion jai-alai player like himself? Oh fie! 
for shame! What a host, so zealous! And he was
there in the hall, flat on a sheet of blood that
ran down the stairs. I did appreciate it. There are few 
hosts who so thoroughly prepare to greet a guest 
only casually invited, and that several months ago.
The Day Lady Died
BY FRANK O’HARA
It is 12:20 in New York a Friday three days after Bastille day, yes it is 1959 and I go get a shoeshine because I will get off the 4:19 in Easthampton at 7:15 and then go straight to dinner and I don’t know the people who will feed me  I walk up the muggy street beginning to sun and have a hamburger and a malted and buy an ugly NEW WORLD WRITING to see what the poets in Ghana are doing these days  I go on to the bank and Miss Stillwagon (first name Linda I once heard) doesn’t even look up my balance for once in her life and in the GOLDEN GRIFFIN I get a little Verlaine for Patsy with drawings by Bonnard although I do think of Hesiod, trans. Richmond Lattimore or Brendan Behan’s new play or Le Balcon or Les Nègres of Genet, but I don’t, I stick with Verlaine after practically going to sleep with quandariness  and for Mike I just stroll into the PARK LANE Liquor Store and ask for a bottle of Strega and then I go back where I came from to 6th Avenue and the tobacconist in the Ziegfeld Theatre and casually ask for a carton of Gauloises and a carton of Picayunes, and a NEW YORK POST with her face on it  and I am sweating a lot by now and thinking of leaning on the john door in the 5 SPOT while she whispered a song along the keyboard to Mal Waldron and everyone and I stopped breathing
 TODAY 
BY FRANK O’HARA     Oh! kangaroos, sequins, chocolate sodas!  You really are beautiful! Pearls,  harmonicas, jujubes, aspirins! all  the stuff they've always talked about    still makes a poem a surprise!  These things are with us every day  even on beachheads and biers. They  do have meaning. They're strong as rocks.
Why I Am Not a Painter
 
 
I am not a painter, I am a poet.
Why? I think I would rather be
a painter, but I am not. Well,
 
for instance, Mike Goldberg
is starting a painting. I drop in.
"Sit down and have a drink" he
says. I drink; we drink. I look
up. "You have SARDINES in it."
"Yes, it needed something there."
"Oh." I go and the days go by
and I drop in again. The painting
is going on, and I go, and the days
go by. I drop in. The painting is
finished. "Where’s SARDINES?"
All that’s left is just
letters, "It was too much," Mike says.
 
But me? One day I am thinking of
a color: orange. I write a line
about orange. Pretty soon it is a
whole page of words, not lines.
Then another page. There should be
so much more, not of orange, of
words, of how terrible orange is
and life. Days go by. It is even in
prose, I am a real poet. My poem
is finished and I haven’t mentioned
orange yet. It’s twelve poems, I call
it ORANGES. And one day in a gallery
I see Mike’s painting, called SARDINES.

-Frank O’Hara
Sun In Days
BY MEGHAN O'ROURKE
1
I tried to live that way for a while, among
the trees, the green breeze,
chewing Bubblicious and by the edge of the pool	spitting it out.
The book open on my chest, a towel
at my back	the diving board thwoking,
and leaving never arrived	Cut it out
my mother said 	my brother
clowning around with a water gun Cut it out.
The planes arrowed into silence, fourteen,
fifteen, sixteen, always coming
home from summer 	over the bridge to Brooklyn.
The father stabbed on Orange Street,
the Betamax in the trash,
the Sasha doll the dog chewed up, hollow
plastic arms gaping. Powdered pink lemonade,
tonguing the sweet grains
 	liquid-thick.
I could stand in that self   for years
wondering is it better to
anticipate than to age 	Imagining
children with five different men,
a great flood that would destroy
your possessions 	and free you to wander.
Bathing suits and apples and suntan oil
and a mother bending over you
shadow of   her face on yours. It’s gone,
that way, the breeze, the permanent pool.
A father saying “ghost” and the sheets
slipping off   the oak tree’s bough.
When I wake, leaves
in the water. You could say green
forever and not be lying.

2
The pond near the house in Maine
where we lived for one year
to “get away” from the city 	the pond
where the skaters 	on Saturdays came,
red scarves 	through white snow,
voices drawing near and 	pulling
away, trees against the clouds. Trying to live
off   the land for a while. Too hard
in the end my father said. 	What did he say?
Forget it 	you weren’t listening 	He wore
fishing overalls most days and stank of   guts.
Our shouts slipping, the green garbage cans
edging the white scar pond,
so many days like secrets about to be
divulged . . .
 	White snow;
to stink of   fish guts but 	to be trying
to live: 	the pond near the house
and the sound of   voices 	drawing near.
As you aged you got distracted, indebted.
In the hospital around my mother
the machines 	beeped,
the long leads of   the heart monitor,
drooping parabolas.
It’s not worth dying for 	she said. What
was it she meant? Swollen shells, the desiccated brown
seedpods we used to pinch onto our noses
and skate about 	putting on airs.
Then the books opened
their pages and with our red woolen
scarves flying and the Freezy Freakies’
once-invisible hearts reddening
into the cold we disappeared.
Evian bottles skitter against the chain-link fence.
It’s gone 	that way 	the green
planes arrowing into silence 	gum wrappers
slipping to the ground.
O wild West Wind 	be thou our friend
and blow away the trash.
Salvage us from 	the heap of our making and
Cut it out my mother said 	Stop worrying
about the future, it doesn’t
belong to us and we don’t belong to it.

3
The surface more slippery, slick
and white the ice. I stand at the pond’s edge
gather the information 	darkening there
hello algae 	hello fish pond
my mind in the depths 	going.
On the beach I dig, tunnel
to the hands of   the woman who stitched
this red shirt 	holes all the way to China.
It got so easy to 	get used to it,
the orchestration of meaning
against the night, life
a tower you could climb on
not a junk heap 	pale picture books
yellowing on the shelves. It got
so 	I close my eyes
and walk along the hospital hall.
The iris quivering in the March light,
a nurse taking my mother’s pulse
not paid enough to help us
as we wished to be helped. And your hope
left behind 	turning the pages of   magazines,
the models in Prada. As a girl
it was a quest, to feel exploded every second,
pudding pops 	and Vietnam vets
standing on the corner shaking their Styrofoam
cups. 	Holding her
cup my mother stands, petting the dog,
it’s 1982 	the sun tunneling in 	she drinks her coffee
Cut it out or 	Forget it or 	Hello.
Look, I’ve made a telephone for us.
Put that cup to your ear, and I’ll put it to mine,
and listen 	I just need to find
one of those Styrofoam cups
and what about you 	where did you
go what kind of night is it there
electric synthetic blackened or burnt.

4
At night they come to you
distorted and bright, like an old print on a light box,
present, 	present,	not quite.
Are we inventing them as we sleep,
or are they still 	happening
in a time we can’t touch?
The hockey game on the blue
tv glowing and slowing 	I come home
to a man slumped on the couch not-quite-saying
a greeting 	all the gone ones there
the slap of skates 	all gone
and the commentator it’s going on forever
the blade moving along rink
says What a slapshot what a shot.
You make a life, it is made of days and
days, ordinary and subvocal, not busy
becoming what they could be, 	dark furlings of
tiny church feelings, mysterious, I mean,
and intricate like that high-windowed light —
intricate and mysterious	I come home.
Near our house we hung out
on the Promenade after school the boys smoking
the security systems in the Center blinking 	a disco
party blue red / blue red the East River
reflecting scraped sky 	cornices and clouds
we could hear the roar of cars across
it and taste the chemical air
of   the offices the fathers worked in
we’d been there to pick them up
for the long weekend in the Catskills
the hum-gray computers, the ibm Selectrics
massive on the desks, eleven, twelve,
thirteen, riding the graffitied subways,
flirting, the boys 	grabbing us calling 	hey 	hey.
Changeable one day to the next.
Jon talking of atheism
blond hair in strips	At night the bomb mushrooming
over the Statue of   Liberty, white
blinding everywhere.	Oh, she said, don’t worry
just a dream	just a dream.
Everyone is scared of   Russia.
Imagine	she laughed 	We used to
have to hide under our desks!
Forget it 	you weren’t listening 	I was trying
Don’t worry it gets you nothing
to tell you something 	the air cold
the maples bare your mother pregnant
Come on the horses are 	past the window
with a son much younger than you
of   the house she rode them past
the river where all the Catholic kids sailed ice boats
uncles taking cash to wire home to Ireland.
The future isn’t here yet, it’s always
going to be, 	but I’m holding you,
walking the Promenade, thirty-six,
the ferry crossing the river again.

5
and for a while 	rain on the dirt road
and the pastured gray horse 	holding Chex Mix
up to its fuzzed mouth 	pockets of   time
all summer 	eating  ghosts in the arcade
Pac-Man alive quarter after quarter
I keep trying 	Cut it out she said and
forget it 	I was trying to tell you
my father cooking fish in the kitchen
licking his thumb 	to turn the page.
In the meantime you try
not to go into a kind of exile —
Oh, you read too many books, says my friend
Dan 	Here’s the tv. And the small voices
of children 	enter the room, they sound
so narrow and light and possible. But
don’t you think we’re always making the same
standing at the car rental
kind of mistake we began by making
at the last minute, rushing to call
our fathers before setting off
for vacation. 	It’s warmer
this August than it has been for decades.
Still the sun bathing us isn’t preposterous
or cold.	Grace: imagine it
and all the afterworld fathers sleeping
with their hair perfectly	combed
faces mortician-clean
unlike
	the ones they wore.
In the motel Reagan on tv 	his hair
in that parted wave 	the milk prices up,
my mother says, inflation. 	Key Food
on Montague, the linoleum tiles dirty and cracked,
the dairy case goose-pimpling my skin.
Those tiles are still there.
She is dead now 	and so is he.
I know it seems bare to say it
bare to 	bare linoleum tiles.
You who come after me
I will be underfoot but 	Oh,
come off it, start again. We all live
amid surfaces and	and I
wish I had the 	Start over 	Come on thou
Step into the street, amidst
the lightly turning trash,
your hair lifting in the wind Remember
I have thought of   you
the lines of our skates converging
in a future etc. etc., the past
the repository of   what can be salvaged, grace
watering the basil
 	on the windowsill, until
the day comes of   looking back at it all,
like a projectionist at a movie
slipping through the reel, the stripped sound of   time —
I tried to live that way for a while
Bubblicious and	spitting it out
Only forget it youwere
if   I could hear your voice 	again 	I could pretend
Rise and shine she called in the
morning 	Rise and shine
leaves in the water 	intricate and
the dying Dutch elms the cool blue pool
pockets of    time	Sun-In bleaching our hair
the faces they wore 	arcade ghosts
and lilacs by the door in Maine
where she leaned 	close to me 	said smell
the planes buzzed 	a purple light 	fingers
sticky if   I could only hear it
again 	you could say forever 	tonguing
the sweet grains 	you could say forever 	and not be
Love Fossil
BY SHARON OLDS
My da on his elegant vegetarian ankles
drank his supper. Like the other dinosaurs
massive, meaty, made of raw steak,
he nibbled and guzzled, his jaw dripping weeds and bourbon,
super sleazy extinct beast my heart dug for.
His eye dark as massy coal deposits,
his stare like lava stopped--he was a stopped man.
He browsed on remains, ambled on his giant bone structure,
could not find his niche and smelled like the tarpits like his
father in the bathroom all day.
I did not understand his doom or my taste for the big
dangerous body.
I flashed my animal sides, and he was
vegetarian to the end.
He was dark as a reptile and splashed with mud like an old Chevy,
he was souped-up and stunned and cruel. He taught me to love
what was stuck, what couldn't help itself,
what went down mute into time like tar, like anger.
He was up to the soft waist
wrapped in his brontosaurus suit like an old bathrobe.
Love rose in me, a storm of mosquitoes
hovering over La Brea.
Carnivore that I was, I watched him
flounder and sink slowly as if he intended it.
Carnivore that I was I watched his
bare white shoulder and I went hungry.
Photograph of the Girl
BY SHARON OLDS
The girl sits on the hard ground,
the dry pan of Russia, in the drought
of 1921, stunned,
eyes closed, mouth open,
raw hot wind blowing
sand in her face. Hunger and puberty are
taking her together. She leans on a sack, 
layers of clothes fluttering in the heat, 
the new radius of her arm curved.
She cannot be not beautiful, but she is
starving. Each day she grows thinner, and her bones 
grow longer, porous. The caption says
she is going to starve to death that winter 
with millions of others. Deep in her body 
the ovaries let out her first eggs,
golden as drops of grain.
Republican Living Rooms  I have known the Republican living rooms, spacious, the oversize furniture,  overstuffed linen floral, the big  mahogany coffee-tables heavy as map tables in some war room, the huge clawed feet piercing the deep wall-to-wall, the table-lamps large and brutal, their tall, shot-silk shades shedding a bright gold haze the light of the rich, the high ceilings, the strange spaces between the chairs and couches after most of the guests have gone. Those who remain are drunk, so they take up more space, their thick financial auras expanding in the quiet. All is suspended in the 14-carat blaze of the lamps turned up so high. It takes a while to notice there is something going on near the doorway into the well-appointed dining room— some kind of tussle. On the carpet, the host is kneeling on the throat of a woman, her face streaked with blood. His cheeks are glazed with sweat and happiness. When she dies he glitters with excitement, his life makes sense. He has a brief moment, before anyone comes close, of perfect bliss —he has finally found something he really likes, something he can do for fun. Best of all, it costs absolutely nothing.  
—Sharon Olds
Satan Says
BY SHARON OLDS
I am locked in a little cedar box
with a picture of shepherds pasted onto
the central panel between carvings.
The box stands on curved legs.
It has a gold, heart-shaped lock
and no key. I am trying to write my
way out of the closed box
redolent of cedar. Satan
comes to me in the locked box
and says, I'll get you out. Say
My father is a shit. I say
my father is a shit and Satan
laughs and says, It's opening.
Say your mother is a pimp.
My mother is a pimp. Something
opens and breaks when I say that.
My spine uncurls in the cedar box
like the pink back of the ballerina pin
with a ruby eye, resting beside me on
satin in the cedar box.
Say shit, say death, say fuck the father,
Satan says, down my ear.
The pain of the locked past buzzes
in the child's box on her bureau, under
the terrible round pond eye
etched around with roses, where
self-loathing gazed at sorrow.
Shit. Death. Fuck the father.
Something opens. Satan says
Don't you feel a lot better? 
Light seems to break on the delicate
edelweiss pin, carved in two
colors of wood. I love him too,
you know, I say to Satan dark
in the locked box. I love them but
I'm trying to say what happened to us
in the lost past. Of Course, he says
and smiles, of course. Now say: torture.
I see, through blackness soaked in cedar,
the edge of a large hinge open.
Say: the father's cock, the mother's
cunt, says Satan. I'll get you out.
The angle of the hinge widens
until I see the outlines of
the time before I was, when they were
locked in the bed. When I say
the magic words, Cock, Cunt,
Satan softly says, Come out.
But the air around the opening
is heavy and thick as hot smoke.
Come in, he says, and I feel his voice
breathing from the opening.
The exit is through Satan's mouth.
Come in my mouth, he says, you're there
already, and the huge hinge
begins to close. Oh no, I loved
them, too, I brace
my body tight
in the cedar house.
Satan sucks himself out the keyhole.
I'm left locked in the box, he seals
the heart-shaped lock with the wax of his tongue.
It's your coffin now, Satan says.
I hardly hear;
I am warming my cold
hands at the dancer's
ruby eye--
the fire, the suddenly discovered knowledge of love.
Take the I Out
BY SHARON OLDS
But I love the I, steel I-beam that my father sold. They poured the pig iron into the mold, and it fed out slowly, a bending jelly in the bath, and it hardened, Bessemer, blister, crucible, alloy, and he marketed it, and bought bourbon, and Cream of Wheat, its curl of butter right in the middle of its forehead, he paid for our dresses with his metal sweat, sweet in the morning and sour in the evening. I love the I, frail between its flitches, its hard ground and hard sky, it soars between them like the soul that rushes, back and forth, between the mother and father. What if they had loved each other, how would it have felt to be the strut joining the floor and roof of the truss? I have seen, on his shirt-cardboard, years in her desk, the night they made me, the penciled slope of her temperature rising, and on the peak of the hill, first soldier to reach the crest, the Roman numeral I-- I, I, I, I, girders of identity, head on, embedded in the poem. I love the I for its premise of existence--our I--when I was born, part gelid, I lay with you on the cooling table, we were all there, a  forest of felled iron. The I is a pine, resinous, flammable root to crown, which throws its cones as far as it can in a fire.
The Eye
By Sharon Olds
My bad grandfather wouldn’t feed us.
He turned the lights out when we tried to read.
He sat alone in the invisible room 
in front of the hearth, and drank. He died
when I was seven, and Grandma had never once
taken anyone’s side against him,
the firelight on his red cold face
reflecting extra on his glass eye.
Today I thought about that glass eye, 
and how at night in the big double bed
he slept facing his wife, and how the limp
hole, where his eye had been, was open
towards her on the pillow, and how I am
one-fourth him, a brutal man with a
hole for an eye, and one-fourth her,
a woman who protected no one. I am their
sex, too, their son, their bed, and
under their bed the trap-door to the 
cellar, with its barrels of fresh apples, and
somewhere in me too is the path
down to the creek gleaming in the dark, a
way out of there.
The Flurry
BY SHARON OLDS
When we talk about when to tell the kids,
we are so together, so concentrated.
I mutter, “I feel like a killer.” “I’m
the killer”—taking my wrist—he says,
holding it. He is sitting on the couch,
the old indigo chintz around him,
rich as a night sea with jellies,
I am sitting on the floor. I look up at him,
as if within some chamber of matedness,
some dust I carry around me. Tonight,
to breathe its Magellanic field is less
painful, maybe because he is drinking
a wine grown where I was born—fog,
eucalyptus, sempervirens—and I’m
sharing the glass with him. “Don’t catch
my cold,” he says, “—oh that’s right, you want
to catch my cold.” I should not have told him that,
I tell him I will try to fall out of
love with him, but I feel I will love him
all my life. He says he loves me
as the mother of our children, and new troupes
of tears mount to the acrobat platforms
of my ducts and do their burning leaps.
Some of them jump straight sideways, and, for a
moment, I imagine a flurry
of tears like a whirra of knives thrown
at a figure, to outline it—a heart’s spurt
of rage. It glitters, in my vision, I nod
to it, it is my hope.
The Month of June: 13 1/2
BY SHARON OLDS
As our daughter approaches graduation and 
puberty at the same time, at her
own, calm, deliberate, serious rate,
she begins to kick up her heels, jazz out her 
hands, thrust out her hipbones, chant
I’m great! I’m great! She feels 8th grade coming 
open around her, a chrysalis cracking and 
letting her out, it falls behind her and 
joins the other husks on the ground,
7th grade, 6th grade, the
magenta rind of 5th grade, the
hard jacket of 4th when she had so much pain, 
3rd grade, 2nd, the dim cocoon of
1st grade back there somewhere on the path, and 
kindergarten like a strip of thumb-suck blanket
taken from the actual blanket they wrapped her in at birth. 
The whole school is coming off her shoulders like a 
cloak unclasped, and she dances forth in her 
jerky sexy child’s joke dance of
self, self, her throat tight and a
hard new song coming out of it, while her 
two dark eyes shine
above her body like a good mother and a 
good father who look down and
love everything their baby does, the way she 
lives their love.
Dream in Which I Love a Third Baseman
BY LISA OLSTEIN
At first he seemed a child,
dirt on his lip and the sun
lighting up his hair behind him.
All around us, the hesitation
of year-rounders who know
the warmer air will bring crowds.
No one goes to their therapist
to talk about how happy they are,
but soon I’d be back in the dugout
telling my batting coach how
the view outside my igloo seemed
to be changing, as if the night
sky were all the light there is.
Now, like two babies reaching
through the watery air to touch soft
fingers to soft forehead, like blind fish
sensing a familiar fluttering in the waves,
slowly, by instinct, we became aware.
Off-field, outside the park, beyond
the gates, something was burning. 
The smell was everywhere.
Letter to a Bridge Made of Rope
-Matthew Olzmann
I don’t trust you. To the shepherd, herding his flock
through the gorge below, it must appear as if I walk
on the sky. I feel like that too: so little between me
 
and The Fall. But this is how faith works its craft.
One foot set in front of the other, while the wind
rattles the cage of the living, and the rocks down there
 
cheer every wobble, and your threads keep
this braided business almost intact saying: Don’t worry.
I’ve been here a long time. You’ll make it across.
7 or 8 Things I Know About Her (A Stolen Biography)
-by Michael Ondaatje
The Father's Guns
After her father died they found nine guns in the house. Two in his clothing drawers, one under the bed, one in the glove compartment of the car, etc. Her brother took their mother out onto the prairie with a revolver and taught her to shoot.
The Bird
For a while in Topeka parrots were very popular. Her father was given one in lieu of a payment and kept it with him at all times because it was the fashion. It swung above him in the law office and drove back with him in the car at night. At parties friends would bring their parrots and make them perform what they had been taught: the first line from Twelfth Night, a bit of Italian opera, cowboy songs, or a surprisingly good rendition of Russ Colombo singing "Prisoner of Love". Her father's parrot could only imitate the office typewriter, along with the ching at the end of each line. Later it broke its neck crashing into a bookcase.
The Bread
Four miles out of Topeka on the highway - the largest electrical billboard in the State of Kansas. The envy of all Missouri. It advertised bread and the electrical image of a knife cut slice after slice. These curled off endlessly. "Meet you at the bread," "See you at the loaf," were common phrases. Aroused couples would park there under the stars on the open night prairie. Virtue was lost, "kissed all over by every boy in Wichita". Poets, the inevitable visiting writers, were taken to see it, and it hummed over the seductions in cars, over the nightmares of girls in bed. Slice after slice fell towards the earth. A feeding of the multitude in this parched land on the way to Dorrance, Kansas.
First Criticism
She is two weeks old, her mother takes her for a drive. At the gas station the mechanic is cleaning the windshield and watches them through the glass. Wiping his hands he puts his head in the side window and says, "Excuse me for saying this but I know what I'm talking about - that child has a heart condition."
Listening In
Overhear her in the bathroom, talking to a bug: "I don't want you on me, honey." 8 a.m.
Self Criticism
"For a while there was something about me that had a dubious quality. Dogs would not take meat out of my hand. The town bully kept handcuffing me to the trees."
Fantasies
Always one fantasy. To be traveling down the street and a man in a clean white suit (the detail of "clean" impresses me) leaps into her path holding flowers and sings to her while an invisible orchestra accompanies his solo. All her life she has waited for this and it never happens.
Reprise
In 1956 the electric billboard in Kansas caught fire and smoke plumed into a wild sunset. Bread on fire, broken glass. Birds flew towards it above the cars that circled round to watch. And last night, past midnight, her excited phone call. Her home town is having a marathon to benefit the symphony. She pays $4 to participate. A tuxedoed gentleman begins the race with a clash of symbols and she takes off. Along her route at frequent intervals are quartets who play for her. When they stop for water a violinist performs a solo. So here she comes. And there I go, stepping forward in my white suit, with a song in my heart.
Sonnet. To Tell the Truth
BY ALICIA OSTRIKER
To tell the truth, those brick Housing Authority buildings 
For whose loveliness no soul had planned,
Like random dominoes stood, worn out and facing each other, 
Creating the enclosure that was our home.
Long basement corridors connected one house to another 
And had a special smell, from old bicycles and baby carriages 
In the storage rooms. The elevators
Were used by kissing teenagers.
The playground—iron swingchains, fences, iron monkey bars, 
Iron seesaw handles, doubtless now rusted—
Left a strong iron smell on my hands and in the autumn air 
And rang with cries. To me it is even precious
Where they chased the local Mongoloid, yelling “Stupid Joey! Stupid Joey!”
Now I’ve said everything nice I can about this.
How to Be Perfect
BY RON PADGETT
Everything is perfect, dear friend.	
 —KEROUAC
Get some sleep.
Don't give advice.
Take care of your teeth and gums.
Don't be afraid of anything beyond your control. Don't be afraid, for
instance, that the building will collapse as you sleep, or that someone
you love will suddenly drop dead.
Eat an orange every morning.
Be friendly. It will help make you happy.
Raise your pulse rate to 120 beats per minute for 20 straight minutes
four or five times a week doing anything you enjoy.
Hope for everything. Expect nothing.
Take care of things close to home first. Straighten up your room
before you save the world. Then save the world.
Know that the desire to be perfect is probably the veiled expression
of another desire—to be loved, perhaps, or not to die.
Make eye contact with a tree.
Be skeptical about all opinions, but try to see some value in each of
them.
Dress in a way that pleases both you and those around you.
Do not speak quickly.
Learn something every day. (Dzien dobre!)
Be nice to people before they have a chance to behave badly.
Don't stay angry about anything for more than a week, but don't
forget what made you angry. Hold your anger out at arm's length
and look at it, as if it were a glass ball. Then add it to your glass ball
collection.
Be loyal.
Wear comfortable shoes.
Design your activities so that they show a pleasing balance
and variety.
Be kind to old people, even when they are obnoxious. When you
become old, be kind to young people. Do not throw your cane at
them when they call you Grandpa. They are your grandchildren!
Live with an animal.
Do not spend too much time with large groups of people.
If you need help, ask for it.
Cultivate good posture until it becomes natural.
If someone murders your child, get a shotgun and blow his head off.
Plan your day so you never have to rush.
Show your appreciation to people who do things for you, even if you
have paid them, even if they do favors you don't want.
Do not waste money you could be giving to those who need it.
Expect society to be defective. Then weep when you find that it is far
more defective than you imagined.
When you borrow something, return it in an even better condition.
As much as possible, use wooden objects instead of plastic or metal
ones.
Look at that bird over there.
After dinner, wash the dishes.
Calm down.
Visit foreign countries, except those whose inhabitants have
expressed a desire to kill you.
Don't expect your children to love you, so they can, if they want to.
Meditate on the spiritual. Then go a little further, if you feel like it.
What is out (in) there?
Sing, every once in a while.
Be on time, but if you are late do not give a detailed and lengthy
excuse.
Don't be too self-critical or too self-congratulatory.
Don't think that progress exists. It doesn't.
"Walk upstairs.
Do not practice cannibalism.
Imagine what you would like to see happen, and then don't do
anything to make it impossible.
Take your phone off the hook at least twice a week.
Keep your windows clean.
Extirpate all traces of personal ambitiousness.
Don't use the word extirpate too often.
Forgive your country every once in a while. If that is not possible, go
to another one.
If you feel tired, rest.
Grow something.
Do not wander through train stations muttering, "We're all going to
die!"
Count among your true friends people of various stations of life.
Appreciate simple pleasures, such as the pleasure of chewing, the
pleasure of warm water running down your back, the pleasure of a
cool breeze, the pleasure of falling asleep.
Do not exclaim, "Isn't technology wonderful!"
Learn how to stretch your muscles. Stretch them every day.
Don't be depressed about growing older. It will make you feel even
older. Which is depressing.
Do one thing at a time.
If you burn your finger, put it in cold water immediately. If you bang
your finger with a hammer, hold your hand in the air for twenty
minutes. You will be surprised by the curative powers of coldness and
gravity.
Learn how to whistle at earsplitting volume.
Be calm in a crisis. The more critical the situation, the calmer you
should be.
Enjoy sex, but don't become obsessed with it. Except for brief periods
in your adolescence, youth, middle age, and old age.
Contemplate everything's opposite.
If you're struck with the fear that you've swum out too far in the
ocean, turn around and go back to the lifeboat.
Keep your childish self alive.
Answer letters promptly. Use attractive stamps, like the one with a
tornado on it.
Cry every once in a while, but only when alone. Then appreciate
how much better you feel. Don't be embarrassed about feeling better.
Do not inhale smoke.
Take a deep breath.
Do not smart off to a policeman.
Do not step off the curb until you can walk all the way across the
street. From the curb you can study the pedestrians who are trapped
in the middle of the crazed and roaring traffic.
Be good.
Walk down different streets.
Backwards.
Remember beauty, which exists, and truth, which does not. Notice
that the idea of truth is just as powerful as the idea of beauty.
Stay out of jail.
In later life, become a mystic.
Use Colgate toothpaste in the new Tartar Control formula.
Visit friends and acquaintances in the hospital. When you feel it is
time to leave, do so.
Be honest with yourself, diplomatic with others.
Do not go crazy a lot. It's a waste of time.
Read and reread great books.
Dig a hole with a shovel.
In winter, before you go to bed, humidify your bedroom.
Know that the only perfect things are a 300 game in bowling and a
27-batter, 27-out game in baseball.
Drink plenty of water. When asked what you would like to drink,
say, "Water, please."
Ask "Where is the loo?" but not "Where can I urinate?"
Be kind to physical objects.
Beginning at age forty, get a complete "physical" every few years
from a doctor you trust and feel comfortable with.
Don't read the newspaper more than once a year.
Learn how to say "hello," "thank you," and "chopsticks"
in Mandarin.
Belch and fart, but quietly.
Be especially cordial to foreigners.
See shadow puppet plays and imagine that you are one of the
characters. Or all of them.
Take out the trash.
Love life.
Use exact change.
When there's shooting in the street, don't go near the window.
I DO NOT
BY MICHAEL PALMER
“Je ne sais pas l’anglais” 
Georges Hugnet
I do not know English.
I do not know English, and therefore I can have nothing to
	say about this latest war, flowering through a night-
	scope in the evening sky.
I do not know English, and therefore, when hungry, can do no
	more than repeatedly point to my mouth.
Yet such a gesture may be taken to mean a number of
	things.
I do not know English, and therefore cannot seek the requisite
	permissions, as outlined in the recent protocol.
Such as: May I utter a term of endearment; may I now proceed
	to put my arm or arms around you and apply gentle
	pressure; may I know kiss you directly on the lips; now
	on the left tendon of the neck; now on the nipple of
	each breast? And so on.
Would not in any case be able to decipher her response.
I do not know English. Therefore I have no way of
	communicating that I prefer this painting of nothing to
	that one of something.
No way to speak of my past or my hopes for the future, of my
	glasses mysteriously shattered in Rotterdam, the statue
	of Eros and Psyche in the Summer Garden, the sudden,
	shrill cries in the streets of Sao Paulo, a watch
	abruptly stopping in Paris.
No way to tell the joke about the rabbi and the parrot, the
	bartender and the duck, the Pope and the porte-cochere.
You will understand why you have received no letters from me
	and why yours have gone unread.
Those, that is, where you write so precisely of the
	confluence of the visible universe with the invisible,
	and the lens of dark matter.
No way to differentiate the hall of mirrors from the meadow
	of mullein, the beetlebung from the pinkeltink, the
	kettlehole from the ventifact.
Nor can I utter the words science, seance, silence, language
	and languish.
Nor can I tell of the arboreal shadows elongated and shifting
	along the wall as the sun's angle approaches maximum
	hibernal declination.
Cannot tell of the almond-eyed face that peered from the
	well, the ship of stone whose sail was a tongue.
And I cannot report that this rose has twenty-four petals,
	one slightly cankered.
Cannot tell how I dismantled it myself at this desk.
Cannot ask the name of this rose.
I cannot repeat the words of the Recording Angel or those of
	the Angel of Erasure.
Can speak neither of things abounding nor of things
	disappearing.
Still the games continue. A muscular man waves a stick at a
	ball. A woman in white, arms outstretched, carves a true
	circle in space. A village turns to dust in the chalk
	hills.
Because I do not know English I have variously been called
	Mr. Twisted, The One Undone, The Nonrespondent, The
	Truly Lost Boy, and Laughed-At-By-Horses.
The war is declared ended, almost before it has begun.
They have named it The Ultimate Combat Between Nearness and
	Distance.
I do not know English.
If You Are Over Staying Woke
BY MORGAN PARKER
Water
the plants. Drink
plenty of water.
Don’t hear
the news. Get
bored. Complain
about the weather.
Keep a corkscrew
in your purse.
Swipe right
sometimes.
Don’t smile
unless you want
to. Sleep in.
Don’t see the news.
Remember what
the world is like
for white people.
Listen to
cricket songs.
Floss. Take pills.
Keep an
empty mind.
When you are
hungover
do not say
I’m never drinking
again. Be honest
when you’re up
to it. Otherwise
drink water
lie to yourself
turn off the news
burn the papers
skip the funerals
take pills
laugh at dumb shit
fuck people you
don’t care about
use the crockpot
use the juicer
use the smoothie maker
drink water
from the sky
don’t think
too much about the sky
don’t think about water
skip the funerals
close your eyes
whenever possible
When you toast
look everyone in the eyes
Never punctuate
the President
Write the news
Turn
into water
Water
the fire escape
Burn the paper
Crumble the letters
Instead of
hyacinths pick
hydrangeas
Water the hydrangeas
Wilt the news
White the hydrangeas
Drink the white
Waterfall the
cricket songs
Keep a song mind
Don’t smile
Don’t wilt
funeral
funeral

On the Steps of the Jefferson Memorial
BY LINDA PASTAN
We invent our gods
the way the Greeks did,
in our own image—but magnified.
Athena, the very mother of wisdom,
squabbled with Poseidon
like any human sibling
until their furious tempers 
made the sea writhe.
Zeus wore a crown
of lightning bolts one minute,
a cloak of feathers the next,
as driven by earthly lust
he prepared to swoop
down on Leda.
Despite their power,
frailty ran through them
like the darker veins
in the marble of these temples
we call monuments.
Looking at Jefferson now,
I think of the language
he left for us to live by.
I think of the slave
in the kitchen downstairs.
The Burglary
They stole my mother’s silver,
melting it down, perhaps,
 
into pure mineral, worth
only its own weight.
 
We must eat with our hands now,
grab for food
 
in this new place of greed,
our table set
 
only with memories, tarnishing
even as we speak:
 
my mother holding a shining ladle
in her hand,
 
serving the broth
to children who will forget
 
to polish her silver, forget even
to lock the house.
 
While forks and spoons are divided
from all purpose,
 
patterns are lost like friezes
after centuries of rain,
 
and every knife is robbed
of its cutting edge.

MOLASSES
By Nancy K. Pearson
Song
by Brigit Pegeen Kelly	
Listen: there was a goat's head hanging by ropes in a tree. All night it hung there and sang. And those who heard it Felt a hurt in their hearts and thought they were hearing The song of a night bird. They sat up in their beds, and then They lay back down again. In the night wind, the goat's head Swayed back and forth, and from far off it shone faintly The way the moonlight shone on the train track miles away Beside which the goat's headless body lay. Some boys Had hacked its head off. It was harder work than they had imagined. The goat cried like a man and struggled hard. But they Finished the job. They hung the bleeding head by the school And then ran off into the darkness that seems to hide everything. The head hung in the tree. The body lay by the tracks. The head called to the body. The body to the head. They missed each other. The missing grew large between them, Until it pulled the heart right out of the body, until The drawn heart flew toward the head, flew as a bird flies Back to its cage and the familiar perch from which it trills. Then the heart sang in the head, softly at first and then louder, Sang long and low until the morning light came up over The school and over the tree, and then the singing stopped.... The goat had belonged to a small girl. She named The goat Broken Thorn Sweet Blackberry, named it after The night's bush of stars, because the goat's silky hair Was dark as well water, because it had eyes like wild fruit. The girl lived near a high railroad track. At night She heard the trains passing, the sweet sound of the train's horn Pouring softly over her bed, and each morning she woke To give the bleating goat his pail of warm milk. She sang Him songs about girls with ropes and cooks in boats. She brushed him with a stiff brush. She dreamed daily That he grew bigger, and he did. She thought her dreaming Made it so. But one night the girl didn't hear the train's horn, And the next morning she woke to an empty yard. The goat Was gone. Everything looked strange. It was as if a storm Had passed through while she slept, wind and stones, rain Stripping the branches of fruit. She knew that someone Had stolen the goat and that he had come to harm. She called To him. All morning and into the afternoon, she called And called. She walked and walked. In her chest a bad feeling Like the feeling of the stones gouging the soft undersides Of her bare feet. Then somebody found the goat's body By the high tracks, the flies already filling their soft bottles At the goat's torn neck. Then somebody found the head Hanging in a tree by the school. They hurried to take These things away so that the girl would not see them. They hurried to raise money to buy the girl another goat. They hurried to find the boys who had done this, to hear Them say it was a joke, a joke, it was nothing but a joke.... But listen: here is the point. The boys thought to have Their fun and be done with it. It was harder work than they Had imagined, this silly sacrifice, but they finished the job, Whistling as they washed their large hands in the dark. What they didn't know was that the goat's head was already Singing behind them in the tree. What they didn't know Was that the goat's head would go on singing, just for them, Long after the ropes were down, and that they would learn to listen, Pail after pail, stroke after patient stroke. They would Wake in the night thinking they heard the wind in the trees Or a night bird, but their hearts beating harder. There Would be a whistle, a hum, a high murmur, and, at last, a song, The low song a lost boy sings remembering his mother's call. Not a cruel song, no, no, not cruel at all. This song Is sweet. It is sweet. The heart dies of this sweetness.
The Leaving
 by Brigit Pegeen Kelly
	
My father said I could not do it, but all night I picked the peaches. The orchard was still, the canals ran steadily. I was a girl then, my chest its own walled garden. How many ladders to gather an orchard? I had only one and a long patience with lit hands and the looking of the stars which moved right through me the way the water moved through the canals with a voice that seemed to speak of this moonless gathering and those who had gathered before me. I put the peaches in the pond's cold water, all night up the ladder and down, all night my hands twisting fruit as if I were entering a thousand doors, all night my back a straight road to the sky. And then out of its own goodness, out of the far fields of the stars, the morning came, and inside me was the stillness a bell possesses just after it has been rung, before the metal begins to long again for the clapper's stroke. The light came over the orchard. The canals were silver and then were not. and the pond was--I could see as I laid the last peach in the water--full of fish and eyes.
Excerpt from “Trans Figures” 
by Tim Trace Peterson
The voice wants to turn itself into a body.
It can’t, though it tries hard —
it brings you flowers, to engender a meaningful
relationship. It makes you coffee in the morning.
Here, have a cup.
See? It likes you. It makes your bed
and shows you this mountain vista out the window
a field of jupiters beard and beyond it
the dying fields. It shows you things like the sun
going down, and then here it is coming up in the hollyhocks.
Don’t look, you’ll hurt your eyes. I want
to be there for you, you never respond
in those moments we touch (but they are not enough).
Let me stroke your hair once more, here,
and again here. The voice is growing distant
now, it is fading like the sun fades
and explodes in strands of parti-colored fibers
you will never be able to see.
Let there be breasts! (and there were breasts)
Let there be a penis! (and there was a penis)
or at least it looked like it from the viewer’s perspective,
under those clothes. If only it were slim,
with wide hips! (and it was slim with wide hips)
Let there be taffeta, muslin, silk, velvet,
velour, or crinoline: and there were all these things,
in abundance. Let there be hard hats, biceps
bulging out of their shirts, buttocks like boulders
in tight jeans, and there were all these things,
across the landscape. The people looked around
and saw the abundances that language had given them.
The voice envied them. It could have none of this
to keep, but wanted you to think it did.
 
Smoothed my hand over the plush
Slipping my arms into the sheer
deep sound in my throat
my big breasts filling both my hands
Muscles rippling under my thin cotton shirt
Cleared my throat and began
Trailed blue smoke from my nostrils, like a lazy
Around my shoulders and across
To a party. Forget my hair for now
Clearing my throat, I glanced over
hips were small, and I wondered
Watching my cheeks flex as I suckled
felt hot against my almost naked
Riveted on the full, soft curve
Look around, my gray eyes unreadable.

Mustang Bagel
BY KIKI PETROSINO
Even at my favorite coffeeshop downtown, Redford
is a hard man to feed. This morning, he picks
at his Grilled Asiago Mastercrust with a slow, disdainful frown.
Could they spare the fromage on this so-called "treat?"
He takes a sip of hazelnut coffee, then winces delicately
into the neck of his sweater vest. I bite powerfully
through my Cinnamon Frenchroll: Well, if you really don't think
you got enough—"fromage"—you should just go back up there
& tell the girl. I start on Redford's coffee while he looks glumly
at the metal napkin dispenser. Just then, the electric chime
above the door sounds. A man sweeps in & rests
his guitar case on one of the slim café chairs.
His dark hair is arranged in a series of perpetually
break wavefronts. A small muscle jumps in his jaw
as he orders a Cinnamon Frenchroll, toasted, with cream cheese.
I lean forward, jabbing Redford with my plastic coffee wand.
Check out that guy over there I say. Intense.
Redford shrugs. I think he's Irish I say, watching the man bite
into his bagel. The instrument case hovers on the chair edge.
He could have a guitar in there, or else—a sword from the Crusades.
I press my tongue into the square-shaped hole in the lid
of my coffee cup. Listen Redford says. If we're going to be together
you have to take this. He pushes a small velvet box across the table.
What are you doing? I ask, but Redford doesn't answer.
He just looks down at the table, one hand pressed
to each of his temples. In the box is a square of chocolate
like the top of a signet ring, smooth, but edged
in something bright. It's smoked salt from Wales, Redford says.
Handmade in limited quantities. I turn the little box
in my hands. The salt sparkles like an arctic church.
I have to blink against it all.
Secret Ninja
BY KIKI PETROSINO
You thought you saw me!
But you didn't.
I wear black turtlenecks.
Black panties.
Live in a tall cave!
You don't know where my cave is.
But I come out.
Every day!
To buy mustard & relish!
See what—
A man.
Walking away from me.
No good.
Smash him!
With a loud smash!
Smash his metal table and cards.
Good!
Down in my cave.
Put on my Seahawk gear!
Watch Parade of Homes.
Watch Ron Popeil put chicken & fishes
& burgers & pork & macaroni in the same
box. Hey! I can sell that
box! At school.
Where I smash the gym teacher in his head!
I don't wear my uniform.
I don't clean my locker.
I don't share my lunch with the athletes.
My lunch—mustard.
Straight from the packet.
No one sits next to me.
Keep working my skills.
Keep circling the word blood
in Macbeth.
Good.
It takes days.
It takes days.
Blue
BY CARL PHILLIPS
As through marble or the lining of 
certain fish split open and scooped 
clean, this is the blue vein 
that rides, where the flesh is even 
whiter than the rest of her, the splayed 
thighs mother forgets, busy struggling 
for command over bones: her own, 
those of the chaise longue, all 
equally uncooperative, and there’s 
the wind, too. This is her hair, gone 
from white to blue in the air. 
This is the black, shot with blue, of my dark 
daddy’s knuckles, that do not change, ever. 
Which is to say they are no more pale 
in anger than at rest, or when, as 
I imagine them now, they follow 
the same two fingers he has always used 
to make the rim of every empty blue 
glass in the house sing. 
Always, the same 
blue-to-black sorrow 
no black surface can entirely hide. 
Under the night, somewhere 
between the white that is nothing so much as 
blue, and the black that is, finally; nothing, 
I am the man neither of you remembers. 
Shielding, in the half-dark, 
the blue eyes I sometimes forget 
I don’t have. Pulling my own stoop- 
shouldered kind of blues across paper. 
Apparently misinformed about the rumored 
stuff of dreams: everywhere I inquired, 
I was told look for blue.
 
White Dog
 
 
First snow—I release her into it—
I know, released, she won’t come back.
This is different from letting what,
already, we count as lost go. It is nothing
like that. Also, it is not like wanting to learn what
losing a thing we love feels like. Oh yes:
I love her.
Released, she seems for a moment as if
some part of me that, almost,
I wouldn’t mind
understanding better, is that
not love? She seems a part of me,
and then she seems entirely like what she is:
a white dog,
less white suddenly, against the snow,
who won’t come back. I know that; and, knowing it,
I release her. It’s as if I release her
because I know.
 
 
 
Carl Phillips, The Rest of Love
 
More Than Enough
BY MARGE PIERCY
The first lily of June opens its red mouth.
All over the sand road where we walk
multiflora rose climbs trees cascading
white or pink blossoms, simple, intense
the scene drifting like colored mist.
The arrowhead is spreading its creamy
clumps of flower and the blackberries
are blooming in the thickets. Season of
joy for the bee. The green will never
again be so green, so purely and lushly
new, grass lifting its wheaty seedheads
into the wind. Rich fresh wine
of June, we stagger into you smeared
with pollen, overcome as the turtle
laying her eggs in roadside sand.
Louie Louie
By Robert Pinsky
I have heard of Black Irish but I never
Heard of White Catholic or White Jew.
I have heard of “Is Poetry Popular?” but I
Never heard of Lawrence Welk Drove
Sid Caesar Off Television.
I have heard of Kwanzaa but I have
Never heard of Bert Williams.
I have never heard of Will
Rogers or Roger Williams
Or Buck Rogers or Pearl Buck
Or Frank Buck or Frank
Merriwell At Yale.
I have heard of Yale but I never
Heard of George W. Bush.
I have heard of Harvard but I
Never heard of Numerus Clausus
Which sounds to me like
Some kind of Pig Latin.
I have heard of the Pig Boy.
I have never heard of the Beastie
Boys or the Scottsboro Boys but I
Have heard singing Boys, what
They were called I forget.
I have never heard America
Singing but I have heard of I
Hear America Singing, I think
It must have been a book
We had in school, I forget.
A Birthday Present
-Sylvia Plath
What is this, behind this veil, is it ugly, is it beautiful? 
It is shimmering, has it breasts, has it edges? 
I am sure it is unique, I am sure it is what I want. 
When I am quiet at my cooking I feel it looking, I feel it thinking 
'Is this the one I am too appear for, 
Is this the elect one, the one with black eye-pits and a scar? 
Measuring the flour, cutting off the surplus, 
Adhering to rules, to rules, to rules. 
Is this the one for the annunciation? 
My god, what a laugh!' 
But it shimmers, it does not stop, and I think it wants me. 
I would not mind if it were bones, or a pearl button. 
I do not want much of a present, anyway, this year. 
After all I am alive only by accident. 
I would have killed myself gladly that time any possible way. 
Now there are these veils, shimmering like curtains, 
The diaphanous satins of a January window 
White as babies' bedding and glittering with dead breath. O ivory! 
It must be a tusk there, a ghost column. 
Can you not see I do not mind what it is. 
Can you not give it to me? 
Do not be ashamed--I do not mind if it is small. 
Do not be mean, I am ready for enormity. 
Let us sit down to it, one on either side, admiring the gleam, 
The glaze, the mirrory variety of it. 
Let us eat our last supper at it, like a hospital plate. 
I know why you will not give it to me, 
You are terrified 
The world will go up in a shriek, and your head with it, 
Bossed, brazen, an antique shield, 
A marvel to your great-grandchildren. 
Do not be afraid, it is not so. 
I will only take it and go aside quietly. 
You will not even hear me opening it, no paper crackle, 
No falling ribbons, no scream at the end. 
I do not think you credit me with this discretion. 
If you only knew how the veils were killing my days. 
To you they are only transparencies, clear air. 
But my god, the clouds are like cotton. 
Armies of them. They are carbon monoxide. 
Sweetly, sweetly I breathe in, 
Filling my veins with invisibles, with the million 
Probable motes that tick the years off my life. 
You are silver-suited for the occasion. O adding machine----- 
Is it impossible for you to let something go and have it go whole? 
Must you stamp each piece purple, 
Must you kill what you can? 
There is one thing I want today, and only you can give it to me. 
It stands at my window, big as the sky. 
It breathes from my sheets, the cold dead center 
Where split lives congeal and stiffen to history. 
Let it not come by the mail, finger by finger. 
Let it not come by word of mouth, I should be sixty 
By the time the whole of it was delivered, and to numb to use it. 
Only let down the veil, the veil, the veil. 
If it were death 
I would admire the deep gravity of it, its timeless eyes. 
I would know you were serious. 
There would be a nobility then, there would be a birthday. 
And the knife not carve, but enter 
Pure and clean as the cry of a baby, 
And the universe slide from my side.
Lady Lazarus
BY SYLVIA PLATH
I have done it again. 
One year in every ten 
I manage it——
A sort of walking miracle, my skin 
Bright as a Nazi lampshade, 
My right foot
A paperweight,
My face a featureless, fine 
Jew linen.
Peel off the napkin 
O my enemy. 
Do I terrify?——
The nose, the eye pits, the full set of teeth? 
The sour breath
Will vanish in a day.
Soon, soon the flesh
The grave cave ate will be 
At home on me
And I a smiling woman. 
I am only thirty.
And like the cat I have nine times to die.
This is Number Three. 
What a trash
To annihilate each decade.
What a million filaments. 
The peanut-crunching crowd 
Shoves in to see
Them unwrap me hand and foot——
The big strip tease. 
Gentlemen, ladies
These are my hands 
My knees.
I may be skin and bone,
Nevertheless, I am the same, identical woman. 
The first time it happened I was ten. 
It was an accident.
The second time I meant
To last it out and not come back at all. 
I rocked shut
As a seashell.
They had to call and call
And pick the worms off me like sticky pearls.
Dying
Is an art, like everything else. 
I do it exceptionally well.
I do it so it feels like hell. 
I do it so it feels real.
I guess you could say I’ve a call.
It’s easy enough to do it in a cell.
It’s easy enough to do it and stay put. 
It’s the theatrical
Comeback in broad day
To the same place, the same face, the same brute 
Amused shout:
‘A miracle!’
That knocks me out. 
There is a charge
For the eyeing of my scars, there is a charge 
For the hearing of my heart——
It really goes.
And there is a charge, a very large charge 
For a word or a touch 
Or a bit of blood
Or a piece of my hair or my clothes. 
So, so, Herr Doktor. 
So, Herr Enemy.
I am your opus,
I am your valuable, 
The pure gold baby
That melts to a shriek. 
I turn and burn.
Do not think I underestimate your great concern.
Ash, ash—
You poke and stir.
Flesh, bone, there is nothing there——
A cake of soap, 
A wedding ring, 
A gold filling.
Herr God, Herr Lucifer 
Beware
Beware.
Out of the ash
I rise with my red hair 
And I eat men like air.
MAD GIRL’S LOVE SONG
BY SYLVIA PLATH

"I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead;
I lift my lids and all is born again.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)
The stars go waltzing out in blue and red,
And arbitrary blackness gallops in:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.
I dreamed that you bewitched me into bed
And sung me moon-struck, kissed me quite insane.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)
God topples from the sky, hell's fires fade:
Exit seraphim and Satan's men:
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.
I fancied you'd return the way you said,
But I grow old and I forget your name.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)
I should have loved a thunderbird instead;
At least when spring comes they roar back again.
I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.
(I think I made you up inside my head.)" 
MEDUSA
BY SYLVIA PLATH

Off that landspit of stony mouth-plugs,
Eyes rolled by white sticks,
Ears cupping the sea's incoherences,
You house your unnerving head—God-ball,
Lens of mercies,
Your stooges
Plying their wild cells in my keel's shadow,
Pushing by like hearts,
Red stigmata at the very center,
Riding the rip tide to the nearest point of
departure,
Dragging their Jesus hair.
Did I escape, I wonder?
My mind winds to you
Old barnacled umbilicus, Atlantic cable,
Keeping itself, it seems, in a state of miraculous
repair.
In any case, you are always there,
Tremulous breath at the end of my line,
Curve of water upleaping
To my water rod, dazzling and grateful,
Touching and sucking.
I didn't call you.
I didn't call you at all.
Nevertheless, nevertheless
You steamed to me over the sea,
Fat and red, a placenta
Paralyzing the kicking lovers.
Cobra light
Squeezing the breath from the blood bells
Of the fuchsia. I could draw no breath,
Dead and moneyless,
Overexposed, like an X-ray.
Who do you think you are?
A Communion wafer? Blubbery Mary?
I shall take no bite of your body,
Bottle in which I live,
Ghastly Vatican.
I am sick to death of hot salt.
Green as eunuchs, your wishes
Hiss at my sins.
Off, off, eely tentacle!
There is nothing between us.

MORNING SONG
Love set you going like a fat gold watch.
	The midwife slapped your footsoles, and your bald cry
	Took its place among the elements.
	Our voices echo, magnifying your arrival.New statue.
	In a drafty museum, your nakedness
	Shadows our safety.We stand round blankly as walls.
	I'm no more your mother
	Than the cloud that distills a mirror to reflect its own slow
	Effacement at the wind's hand.
	All night your moth-breath
	Flickers among the flat pink roses.I wake to listen:
	A far sea moves in my ear.
	One cry, and I stumble from bed, cow-heavy and floral
	In my Victorian nightgown.
	Your mouth opens clean as a cat's.The window square
	Whitens and swallows its dull stars.And now you try
	Your handful of notes;
	The clear vowels rise like balloons. 
The Applicant
BY SYLVIA PLATH
First, are you our sort of a person?
Do you wear
A glass eye, false teeth or a crutch,
A brace or a hook,
Rubber breasts or a rubber crotch,
Stitches to show something's missing? No, no? Then
How can we give you a thing?
Stop crying.
Open your hand.
Empty? Empty. Here is a hand
To fill it and willing
To bring teacups and roll away headaches
And do whatever you tell it.
Will you marry it?
It is guaranteed
To thumb shut your eyes at the end
And dissolve of sorrow.
We make new stock from the salt.
I notice you are stark naked.
How about this suit----
Black and stiff, but not a bad fit.
Will you marry it?
It is waterproof, shatterproof, proof
Against fire and bombs through the roof.
Believe me, they'll bury you in it.
Now your head, excuse me, is empty.
I have the ticket for that.
Come here, sweetie, out of the closet.
Well, what do you think of that ?
Naked as paper to start
But in twenty-five years she'll be silver,
In fifty, gold.
A living doll, everywhere you look.
It can sew, it can cook,
It can talk, talk , talk.
It works, there is nothing wrong with it.
You have a hole, it's a poultice.
You have an eye, it's an image.
My boy, it's your last resort.
Will you marry it, marry it, marry it.

Tulips
BY SYLVIA PLATH
The tulips are too excitable, it is winter here.
Look how white everything is, how quiet, how snowed-in. 
I am learning peacefulness, lying by myself quietly
As the light lies on these white walls, this bed, these hands. 
I am nobody; I have nothing to do with explosions. 
I have given my name and my day-clothes up to the nurses 
And my history to the anesthetist and my body to surgeons.
They have propped my head between the pillow and the sheet-cuff 
Like an eye between two white lids that will not shut.
Stupid pupil, it has to take everything in.
The nurses pass and pass, they are no trouble,
They pass the way gulls pass inland in their white caps,
Doing things with their hands, one just the same as another, 
So it is impossible to tell how many there are.
My body is a pebble to them, they tend it as water
Tends to the pebbles it must run over, smoothing them gently.
They bring me numbness in their bright needles, they bring me sleep. 
Now I have lost myself I am sick of baggage——
My patent leather overnight case like a black pillbox, 
My husband and child smiling out of the family photo; 
Their smiles catch onto my skin, little smiling hooks.
I have let things slip, a thirty-year-old cargo boat 
stubbornly hanging on to my name and address.
They have swabbed me clear of my loving associations. 
Scared and bare on the green plastic-pillowed trolley 
I watched my teaset, my bureaus of linen, my books 
Sink out of sight, and the water went over my head. 
I am a nun now, I have never been so pure.
I didn’t want any flowers, I only wanted
To lie with my hands turned up and be utterly empty.
How free it is, you have no idea how free——
The peacefulness is so big it dazes you,
And it asks nothing, a name tag, a few trinkets.
It is what the dead close on, finally; I imagine them 
Shutting their mouths on it, like a Communion tablet. 
The tulips are too red in the first place, they hurt me.
Even through the gift paper I could hear them breathe 
Lightly, through their white swaddlings, like an awful baby. 
Their redness talks to my wound, it corresponds.
They are subtle : they seem to float, though they weigh me down, 
Upsetting me with their sudden tongues and their color, 
A dozen red lead sinkers round my neck.
Nobody watched me before, now I am watched. 
The tulips turn to me, and the window behind me
Where once a day the light slowly widens and slowly thins, 
And I see myself, flat, ridiculous, a cut-paper shadow 
Between the eye of the sun and the eyes of the tulips, 
And I have no face, I have wanted to efface myself. 
The vivid tulips eat my oxygen.
Before they came the air was calm enough,
Coming and going, breath by breath, without any fuss. 
Then the tulips filled it up like a loud noise.
Now the air snags and eddies round them the way a river 
Snags and eddies round a sunken rust-red engine. 
They concentrate my attention, that was happy 
Playing and resting without committing itself.
The walls, also, seem to be warming themselves.
The tulips should be behind bars like dangerous animals; 
They are opening like the mouth of some great African cat, 
And I am aware of my heart: it opens and closes
Its bowl of red blooms out of sheer love of me.
The water I taste is warm and salt, like the sea,
And comes from a country far away as health.
Two Lovers and a Beachcomber by the Real Sea

Cold and final, the imagination
Shuts down its fabled summer house;
Blue views are boarded up; our sweet vacation
Dwindles in the hour-glass.
Thoughts that found a maze of mermaid hair
Tangling in the tide's green fall
Now fold their wings like bats and disappear
Into the attic of the skull.
We are not what we might be; what we are
Outlaws all extrapolation
Beyond the interval of now and here:
White whales are gone with the white ocean.
A lone beachcomber squats among the wrack
Of kaleidoscope shells
Probing fractured Venus with a stick
Under a tent of taunting gulls.
No sea-change decks the sunken shank of bone
That chucks in backtrack of the wave;
Though the mind like an oyster labors on and on,
A grain of sand is all we have.
Water will run by; the actual sun
Will scrupulously rise and set;
No little man lives in the exacting moon
And that is that, is that, is that. 
WITCH BURNING
In the marketplace they are piling the dry sticks.
A thicket of shadows is a poor coat. I inhabit
The wax image of myself, a doll's body.
Sickness begins here: I am the dartboard for witches.
Only the devil can eat the devil out.
In the month of red leaves I climb to a bed of fire.
It is easy to blame the dark: the mouth of a door,
The cellar's belly. They've blown my sparkler out.
A black-sharded lady keeps me in parrot cage.
What large eyes the dead have!
I am intimate with a hairy spirit.
Smoke wheels from the beak of this empty jar.
If I am a little one, I can do no harm.
If I don't move about, I'll knock nothing over. So I said,
Sitting under a potlid, tiny and inert as a rice grain.
They are turning the burners up, ring after ring.
We are full of starch, my small white fellows. We grow.
It hurts at first. The red tongues will teach the truth.
Mother of beetles, only unclench your hand:
I'll fly through the candle's mouth like a singeless moth.
Give me back my shape. I am ready to construe the days
I coupled with dust in the shadow of a stone.
My ankles brighten. Brightness ascends my thighs.
I am lost, I am lost, in the robes of all this light. 
Jorie Graham
BY JOHN POCH
No one likes to lie or be lied to.
 —Jorie Graham
 Once, I pressed my ear
 against a doorframe in Iowa.
 Picture a lover fresh from his beloved
 trying hard to become a doorframe
 through which that beloved will walk
 and even sleepwalk. Listen.
 Ants were eating the house,
 and you could hear their fun.
 The workers were so drunk with crunching
 they would stagger out
 from the baseboard like total tourists.
 And I, a skyscraper.
 The queen lay safe a hundred yards away,
 which seemed a mile, while poem
 after poem dropped from her body.
 These were carried away
 before she could mature them.
 I am not obsessed with the queen.
 I am not obsessed with the queen.
 I am not obsessed with the queen.
 She made me write this a hundred times
 on the board after class one year.
 The workers made fun and crunched.
 The queen said, This boy is a liar;
 now laugh at him. I stood
 accused of imitating a doorframe,
 of writing a sonnet.
 I wish this were a sonnet.
 I wish everything were one.
 I stood there with my ear
 like a flag on a pole
 contemplating hospitality or revenge.
 I chose nectar—that which overcomes death—
 and I poured it on.
The Cigarette
BY FRANCIS PONGE (Trans. C.K. Williams)

Let’s first create the atmosphere, at once misty, dry, and 
disheveled, in which the cigarette, since it itself continually 
creates it, is always laid athwart.
Then its person: a little torch, much less luminous than fragrant, 
from which in a rhythm yet to be determined a measurable number 
of little lumps of ash detach themselves and fall away.
Finally, its passion: that fiery bud, flaking off into silver dandruff, 
held by a sleeve immediately formed by the most recent of them.
callas lover
BY D. A. POWELL
this is the track I've had on REPEAT all afternoon:she is butterfly
brilliant riband, rice flour face, silken, even her voice a sashed kimono
 	if I were foolish like her: 
	but aren't I foolish like her
 	spotting the coil of smoke and the billowed sail
 	against the verge of sky
simple on the rise surveying the anchorage:simple me, signal me
dreading the confident assumption of return, dreading more
uncertain tone to come, the thinning notes, performance
too close to my own impatient—swells, a surge:sick wind
but the emotion is, after all, an artfully conjured gesture
arranged marriage between a past ache and frail woodwinds
 	I could skip ahead
	could break the inconsolable loop
of harbor, waiting, overlook, waiting, inevitable waning eye
troubled robins, once more in the handkerchief trees
once more, brief aquarelle of triplet lilies, blue as willowware 
in that interval before his embrace falters, stuck, founders
	[shuffle play]	such a pitch of tenderness in the voice
 	such an awful lot of noise
The Fluffer Talks of Eternity
BY D. A. POWELL
I can only give you back what you imagine.
I am a soulless man. When I take you
into my mouth, it is not my mouth. It is
an unlit pit, an aperture opened just enough
in the pinhole camera to capture the shade.
I have caused you to rise up to me, and I
have watched as you rose and waned.
Our times together have been innumerable. Still,
like a Capistrano swallow, you come back.
You understand: I understand you. Understand
each jiggle and tug. Your pudgy, mercurial wad.
I am simply a hand inexhaustible as yours
could never be. You’re nevertheless prepared to shoot.
If I could I’d finish you. Be more than just your rag.
 [darling can you kill me: with your mickeymouse pillows]
BY D.A. POWELL
darling can you kill me:	with your mickeymouse pillows 
when I'm a meager man.with your exhaust pipe and hose
could you put me out: when I'm a mite a splinter a grain 
a tatter a snip a sliver a whit a tittle. habited by pain
would you bop me on the noggin: with a two by four 
the trifle of me pissing myself. slobbering infantile: or
wheezing in an oxygen tent. won't you shut off the tank 
mightn't you disconnect the plug: give the cord a proper yank
when I lose the feeling in my legs. when my hands won't grip 
and I'm a thread a reed a wrack a ruin: of clap and flux and grippe
with your smack connections could you dose me. as I start my
 	decline 
would you put a bullet through me. angel: no light left that is mine.
Love Poem

I’ll make you a bomb. First the booster gas canister,
then the heat shield, then the radium case, which, yes,
is shaped like a peanut. I’ll make you a bomb,
first the heat field, then the lenses that drive
the implosion, and last the radiation space, which,
yes, is shaped like a peanut. I’ll make you a bomb,
first the space filler, then the glass lenses,
which, careful, may implode. I’ll make you a swan,
first a crease here, then a crease there, a quick tuck
for the wings, an explosion of flight. I’ll make you a swan,
one-two-three folds and now it’s done, but it will not fly,
its wing tips burning like fuses. I’ll make you a dress,
don’t you love me? a nip and a tuck and three pins
to hold it tight. I’ll make you a little white dress,
inside it your heart says bang, bang, bang, your mind
like a swan’s. Careful, it’s shaped like a peanut,
careful of when it decays, careful, it may implode.
Don’t you love me? Look what I’ve made you.
 
 
 
Kevin Prufer, In a Beautiful Country
From “Citizen”
BY CLAUDIA RANKINE
/ 
You are in the dark, in the car, watching the black-tarred street being swallowed by speed; he tells you his dean is making him hire a person of color when there are so many great writers out there. 
You think maybe this is an experiment and you are being tested or retroactively insulted or you have done something that communicates this is an okay conversation to be having. 
Why do you feel okay saying this to me? You wish the light would turn red or a police siren would go off so you could slam on the brakes, slam into the car ahead of you, be propelled forward so quickly both your faces would suddenly be exposed to the wind.
As usual you drive straight through the moment with the expected backing off of what was previously said. It is not only that confrontation is headache producing; it is also that you have a destination that doesn’t include acting like this moment isn’t inhabitable, hasn’t happened before, and the before isn’t part of the now as the night darkens  and the time shortens between where we are and where we are going.
/
 
When you arrive in your driveway and turn off the car, you remain behind the wheel another ten minutes. You fear the night is being locked in and coded on a cellular level and want time to function as a power wash. Sitting there staring at the closed garage door you are reminded that a friend once told you there exists a medical term — John Henryism — for people exposed to stresses stemming from racism. They achieve themselves to death trying to dodge the build up of erasure. Sherman James, the researcher who came up with the term, claimed the physiological costs were high. You hope by sitting in  silence you are bucking the trend.
/
 
When the stranger asks, Why do you care? you just stand there staring at him. He has just referred to the boisterous teenagers in Starbucks as niggers. Hey, I am standing right here, you responded, not necessarily expecting him to turn to you.
He is holding the lidded paper cup in one hand and a small paper bag in the other. They are just being kids. Come on, no need to get all KKK on them, you say.
Now there you go, he responds.
The people around you have turned away from their screens. The teenagers are on pause. There I go? you ask, feeling irritation begin to rain down. Yes, and something about hearing yourself repeating this stranger’s accusation in a voice usually reserved for your partner makes you smile.
/
 
A man knocked over her son in the subway. You feel your own body wince. He’s okay, but the son of a bitch kept walking. She says she grabbed the stranger’s arm and told him to apologize: I told him to look at the boy and apologize. And yes, you want it to stop, you want the black child pushed to the ground to be seen, to be helped to his feet and be brushed off, not brushed off  by the person that did not see him, has never seen him, has perhaps never seen anyone who is not a reflection of himself.
The beautiful thing is that a group of men began to stand behind me like a fleet of  bodyguards, she says, like newly found uncles and brothers.
/
 
The new therapist specializes in trauma counseling. You have only ever spoken on the phone. Her house has a side gate that leads to a back entrance she uses for patients. You walk down a path bordered on both sides with deer grass and rosemary to the gate, which turns out to be locked.
At the front door the bell is a small round disc that you press firmly. When the door finally opens, the woman standing there yells, at the top of her lungs, Get away from my house. What are you doing in my yard?
It’s as if a wounded Doberman pinscher or a German shepherd has gained the power of speech. And though you back up a few steps, you manage to tell her you have an appointment. You have an appointment? she spits back. Then she pauses. Everything pauses. Oh, she says, followed by, oh, yes, that’s right. I am sorry.
I am so sorry, so, so sorry.
/
Bells For John Whiteside’s Daughter
There was such speed in her little body, 
And such lightness in her footfall, 
It is no wonder her brown study
Astonishes us all.
Her wars were bruited in our high window. 
We looked among orchard trees and beyond 
Where she took arms against her shadow, 
Or harried unto the pond
The lazy geese, like a snow cloud
Dripping their snow on the green grass, 
Tricking and stopping, sleepy and proud, 
Who cried in goose, Alas,
For the tireless heart within the little 
Lady with rod that made them rise
From their noon apple-dreams and scuttle 
Goose-fashion under the skies!
But now go the bells, and we are ready, 
In one house we are sternly stopped
To say we are vexed at her brown study, 
Lying so primly propped.
Piazza Piece
—I am a gentleman in a dustcoat trying
To make you hear. Your ears are soft and small 
And listen to an old man not at all,
They want the young men’s whispering and sighing. 
But see the roses on your trellis dying
And hear the spectral singing of the moon;
For I must have my lovely lady soon,
I am a gentleman in a dustcoat trying.
—I am a lady young in beauty waiting 
Until my truelove comes, and then we kiss. 
But what grey man among the vines is this 
Whose words are dry and faint as in a dream? 
Back from my trellis, Sir, before I scream! 
I am a lady young in beauty waiting.
Landscape with Girl and Flowers
BY KEITH RATZLAFF
After an untitled painting by Hannah Crawford
I was in danger
but not that kind.
There was a cougar
in my dream, but a dog
to keep the cougar at bay.
There was the world
in danger as always
of dissolving.
There were mockingbirds
and stonecrop, violets
and spring.No,
the danger was being
here in this painting,
a girl nearly mistaken
for a flower—Sweet Betsy,
Sweet Cicely, Blue-eyed Mary.
As if the world were
only a basket of sweet girls—
sweet stay-at-homes,
sweet bonnets-in-the-street.
But I will not be Rose
or Lily, Iris or Myrtle,not
Daisy, Daisy, Daisy.
Behind my closed eyes
there is a cougar.
Behind my red closed lips
there is Wild Pansy
and its unheard of singing.

Cross Country
BY ROGER REEVES
When I ran, it rained niggers. Early in October—
the first creases of autumn, a flag-weary sky
in which yellow birds, in flight, slip through the breast-
bone of God and tear at the coarse threads
that keep the morning knit tightly around his heart.
What was it that they sang about the light, their tongues,
the thistles they pluck from the bitter bark
of an allthorn then thrust into the breast of whatever god
or good animal requires eating, a good piercing?
These blond bodies thrashing about above me
were death’s idea of the morning passing. Here,
below this golden altar, the making and unmaking
of my body. The kettle-clank and souring sumac
of a man yelling at the light slipping in and out
of my mouth. What name must I carry above the dust
of this field? Bruised ear, blank body, purple tongue, bloody
God bleeding do you hear me? Deer piss and poison ivy
made pungent by the dew and morning sun rising, do you hear me?
When I ran, it rained niggers. In a ditch along the road,
a pair of wild boars, slain and laid tusk to tail, point,
as if required, in two directions at once, toward my body
pressing the last bits of a hunter’s moon into the tar
of this road and away from the meadow-red light coming
up through the chaff rising above this hectored field
and the man yelling. Nigger in the cicadas tuning up
to tear the morning into tatters. Nigger in the squawk
and clatter of a hen complaining of a hand reaching
below her bottom and removing the warm work
of a cold night. Nigger in the reeds covering
the muck of a beaver’s hard birth. Nigger in the blue
hour of a field once wet with the breath of a lone horse
cracking along its flanks. Nigger in the fog lifting
from this field and the stillbirth it reveals. Nigger
in the running. In the bog at the end of this road. 
In the war and in between the wars. Nigger
in the pink salt and eyelashes of a woman I love.
Her mouth pulling water from behind my knee.
Pulling, pulling, pulling. Think: nigger is the god
of our brief salvation. Nigger in a body falling toward a horizon.
Nigger in the twilight that is no longer a twilight
but a black creek fumbling along the spine of a boy
who is running through a city that is running out of water.
Even the lions have left for the mountains.
This is America speaking in translation, in glitter,
in gold grills and fried chicken. Auto-tune this if you must.
Cher will be singing in the brush of static from the attic
radio, believing in love after love or life after love
despite the impure thoughts of evening, despite
the rain soaking the red head of a red bird
now dead in a puddle that refuses to reflect the moon. 
Romanticism (The Blue Keats)
BY ROGER REEVES
I want a terrace of bamboo. A stuttering harp.
A garden fitted with a grotto and gimp hermit.
I want to lose my last name in the crickets
Coupling beneath my feet. I want the body’s burden,
Four more angels to drag through the streets
Of a city that finds the monkey sacred, the fool careful,
The monk dumb. I want a painting of persimmons
And a persimmon. I want the violence of my love
To leave my sleep and my lover alone. I am dedicated
To the same baffled heart I have always carried.
The diamonds and mud of my mouth. The midsummer 
Lurching toward the late-summer heat that will kill
The sage and tomato plants tanning on the veranda. 
I want the water and the leg my uncle lost coming from the well.
If one body will hide another and call this hiding love,
I want to always torture myself with another’s wet borders.
An ankle clicking against an ankle. The wrists fettered. 
There was something I knew before this. Before my hands
Tore at the ropes, snapped cedar poles and ripped the silk 
Of any tent I lay in. I want to know how the savage
Wind loves the house it destroys. I want to know before
I am both house and savage wind, before all of the tents 
In the city become tattered rags snagged in the hair
Of our children and the red-headed trees. I am careful
To want nothing that I cannot lose and be sad in the losing.
A terrace made of rotting bamboo. A harp lost in its singing. 
My last name and the tomatoes falling from the vine. Woman,
I want this plum heart. And the dying that makes us possible.
The Ninth Symphony of Beethoven Understood At Last As a Sexual Message
BY ADRIENNE RICH
A man in terror of impotence
or infertility, not knowing the difference
a man trying to tell something
howling from the climacteric
music of the entirely
isolated soul
yelling at Joy from the tunnel of ego
music without the ghost
of another person in it, music
trying to tell something the man
does not want out, would keep if he could
gagged and bound and flogged with chords of Joy
where everything in silence and the
beating of a bloody fist upon
a splintered table.
from Twenty-One Love Poems 
-Adrienne Rich
II
I wake up in your bed. I know I have been dreaming. 
Much earlier, the alarm broke us from each other, 
you’ve been at your desk for hours. I know what I dreamed: 
our friend the poet comes into my room
where I’ve been writing for days, 
drafts, carbons, poems are scattered everywhere, 
and I want to show her one poem
which is the poem of my life. But I hesitate, 
and wake. You’ve kissed my hair
to wake me. I dreamed you were a poem, 
I say, a poem I wanted to show someone…
and I laugh and fall dreaming again
of the desire to show you to everyone I love, 
to move openly together
in the pull of gravity, which is not simple, 
which carries the feathered grass a long way down the upbreathing air. 

XII
Sleeping, turning in turn like planets
rotating in their midnight meadow: 
a touch is enough to let us know
we’re not alone in the universe, even in sleep: 
the dream-ghosts of two worlds
walking their ghost-towns, almost address each other. 
I’ve wakened to your muttered words
spoken light- or dark-years away
as if my own voice had spoken. 
But we have different voices, even in sleep, 
and our bodies, so alike, are yet so different
and the past echoing through our bloodstreams
is freighted with different language, different meanings—
though in any chronicle of the world we share
it could be written with new meaning
we were two lovers of one gender, 
we were two women of one generation. 

XIX
Can it be growing colder when I begin
to touch myself again, adhesions pull away? 
When slowly the naked face turns from staring backward
and looks into the present, 
the eye of winter, city, anger, poverty, and death
and the lips part and say: I mean to go on living? 
Am I speaking coldly when I tell you in a dream
or in this poem, There are no miracles? 
(I told you from the first I wanted daily life, 
this island of Manhattan was island enough for me.) 
If I could let you know—
two women together is a work
nothing in civilization has make simple, 
two people together is a work
heroic in its ordinariness, 
the slow-picked, halting traverse of a pitch 
where the fiercest attention becomes routine
—look at the faces of those who have chosen it.
Archaic Torso of Apollo
RAINER MARIA RILKE
We cannot know his legendary head with eyes like ripening fruit. And yet his torso is still suffused with brilliance from inside, like a lamp, in which his gaze, now turned to low,  gleams in all its power. Otherwise the curved breast could not dazzle you so, nor could  a smile run through the placid hips and thighs to that dark center where procreation flared.  Otherwise this stone would seem defaced beneath the translucent cascade of the shoulders and would not glisten like a wild beast’s fur:  would not, from all the borders of itself, burst like a star: for here there is no place that does not see you. You must change your life.
Dream of the Huntress
BY ROBIN ROBERTSON
It is always the same:
she is standing over me
in the forest clearing,
a dab of blood on her cheek
from a rabbit or a deer.
I am aware of nothing
but my mutinous flesh,
and the traps of desire
sent to test it—
her bare arms, bare
shoulders, her loosened hair,
the hard, high breasts,
and under a belt
of knives and fish-lures,
her undressed wound.
Every night the same:
the slashed fetlock,
the buckling under;
I wake in her body
broken, like a gun.
Dear Suburb
BY DAVID RODERICK
I’m not interested in sadness,
just a yard as elder earth,
a library of sunflowers
battered by the night’s rain.
When sliced wide, halved at dawn,
I can see how you exist,
O satellite town, your bright possibility
born again in drywall
and the diary with the trick lock.
Hardly held, for years I slept
with my window wide open,
wanting screen-cut threads of rain.
Blind suburb, dear untruth,
you who already know what I mean
when I praise every spared copse,
you were my battery, my sad clue,
but after I mowed the lawn
and watched robins chesting
for seeds I couldn’t resist
what hung in the toolshed,
where, with a pair of garden shears
I cut all the hair from my arms. That need,
that scared need to whiten
or clean a surface: plywood or lawn,
and the spywall behind which I stood,
stock-still, and sinned against
the fly’s flyness. Though you live
inside me, though you laid eggs
in the moisture at the corners
of my eyes, I still dream about
your sinking empire twenty feet above
sea level, and the many things
you never see: beautiful bleached
gas can, tomato posts bent into art,
how half of a butterfly, cut crosswise,
still looks like a butterfly, etc.
DOLOR
BY THEODORE ROETHKE
I have known the inexorable sadness of pencils,
Neat in their boxes, dolor of pad and paper weight,
All the misery of manilla folders and mucilage,
Desolation in immaculate public places,
Lonely reception room, lavatory, switchboard,
The unalterable pathos of basin and pitcher,
Ritual of multigraph, paper-clip, comma,
Endless duplication of lives and objects.
And I have seen dust from the walls of institutions,
Finer than flour, alive, more dangerous than silica,
Sift, almost invisible, through long afternoons of tedium,
Dropping a fine film on nails and delicate eyebrows,
Glazing the pale hair, the duplicate grey standard faces.
Elegy for Jane (My student, thrown by a horse)
BY THEODORE ROETHKE
I remember the neckcurls, limp and damp as tendrils;
And her quick look, a sidelong pickerel smile;
And how, once startled into talk, the light syllables leaped for her,
And she balanced in the delight of her thought,
A wren, happy, tail into the wind,
Her song trembling the twigs and small branches.
The shade sang with her;
The leaves, their whispers turned to kissing,
And the mould sang in the bleached valleys under the rose.
Oh, when she was sad, she cast herself down into such a pure depth,
Even a father could not find her:
Scraping her cheek against straw,
Stirring the clearest water.
My sparrow, you are not here,
Waiting like a fern, making a spiney shadow.
The sides of wet stones cannot console me,
Nor the moss, wound with the last light.
If only I could nudge you from this sleep,
My maimed darling, my skittery pigeon.
Over this damp grave I speak the words of my love:
I, with no rights in this matter,
Neither father nor lover.

B-Boy Infinitives  BY PATRICK ROSAL
  To suck until our lips turned blue   the last drops of cool juice   from a crumpled cup sopped   with spit the first Italian Ice of summer   To chase popsicle stick skiffs   along the curb skimming stormwater   from Woodbridge Ave to Old Post Road   To be To B-boy To be boys who   snuck into a garden to pluck   a baseball from mud and shit   To hop that old man's fence before   he bust through his front door   with a lame-bull limp charge   and a fist the size of half a spade   To be To B-boy To lace shell-toe Adidas   To say Word to Kurtis Blow   To laugh the afternoons   someone's mama was so black   when she stepped our the car   the oil light went on   To count hairs sprouting   around our cocks To touch   ourselves To pick the half-smoked   True Blues from my father's ash tray   and cough the gray grit   into my hands To run   my tongue along the lips of a girl   with crooked teeth To be   To B-boy To be boys for the ten days   an 8-foot gash of cardboard lasts   after we dragged that cardboard   seven blocks then slapped it   on the cracked blacktop To spin   on our hands and backs To bruise   elbows wrists and hips To Bronx-Twist   Jersey version beside the mid-day traffic   To swipe To pop To lock freeze and   drop dimes on the hot pavement--   even if the girls stopped watching   and the street lamps lit buzzed all   night we danced like that   and no one called us home
At the Altar
BY ELEANOR ROSS TAYLOR
That bag you packed me
when you sent me
to the universe—
camp after camp I’ve opened it
debating whether to unpack—
Not yet, not yet—
Why did I feel so much in it
was dangerous on the playground,
too good for everyday,
feel those splendid fireworks
hazardous to institutions,
unmannerly to etiquette,
so that, time after time,
I found myself saying
 Not yet?
 
At each new place I faced it,
it suggested,
Here spread out your things,
put on this coat,
open this bottle—
 No, not yet . . .
sometimes throwing something out,
giving things away,
lightening my load. . . .
 
The more I pull out,
the more it seems, some days,
is left inside,
the heavier it is.
 
Sometimes I think this package
is almost a door
the opening of which
careening across heaven
could be fatal.
 
Some days now I wonder if I’ll ever
dare face my given garments—
permanently wrinkled,
surely out of date—
your travel-thought
wasting in its tissue, flesh-corrupt—
till I’ve absorbed it,
like those stitches that dissolve
in an incision
where something’s been removed.
Yes?
ELEANOR ROSS TAYLOR
The dollar mark said
my shoe was long enough
and wide enough and happy
enough which was enough for
me. But it was not enough 
for my foot. What did he care 
for a happy shoe?
I gave him my left ear.
The right one I kept for
myself and in it I heard
right, right
Merengue
BY MARY RUEFLE
I’m sorry to say it, but fucking
is nothing. To the gods, we look
like dogs. Still, they watch.
Did you lose your wallet?
Did you rip up the photo?
Did you pick up the baby
and kiss its forehead?
Did you drive into a deer?
Did you hack at the grass
as if it could kill you?
Did you ask your mother for milk?
Did you light the candles?
Did you count the buttons on your shirt?
Were you off by one? Did you start again?
Did you learn how to cut a pineapple,
open a coconut?
Did ou carry a body once it had died?
For how long and how far?
Did you do the merengue?
Did you wave at the train?
Did you finish the puzzle, or save it for morning?
Did you say something? Would you repeat it?
Did you throw the bottle against the wall?
Did it break? Did you clean it up?
Did you tear down the web? What did you do
with the bug the spider was saving?
Did you dive without clothes into cold water?
Have you been born?
What book will you be reading when you die?
If it’s a good one, you won’t finish it.
If it’s a bad one, what a shame.
Middle School
BY MARY RUEFLE
I went to Cesare Pavese Middle School.
The gymnasium was a chapel dedicated to loneliness
and no one played games.
There was a stained-glass window over the principal’s desk
and innumerable birds flew against it,
reciting Shelley with all their might,
but it was bulletproof, and besides,
out leaders were never immortal.
The classrooms were modeled after motel rooms,
replete with stains, and in remedial cases
saucers of milk on the floor for innumerable cats,
or kittens, depending on the time of year.
In them we were expected to examine ourselves and pass.
The principal himself once jumped off the roof
at noon, to show us school spirit.
Our mascot was Twist-Tie Man.
Our team the Bitter Herbs.
Our club the Recondsiderers.
It was an honor to have gone,
though a tad strict in retrospect.
You have probably heard that we all became janitors,
sitting in basements next to boilers
reading cheap paperback books of Italian poetry,
and never sweep a thing.
Yet the world runs fine.
The Letter
BY MARY RUEFLE
Beloved, men in thick green coats came crunching
through the snow, the insignia on their shoulders
of uncertain origin, a country I could not be sure of,
a salute so terrifying I heard myself lying to avoid
arrest, and was arrested along with Jocko, whose tear
had snapped off, a tiny icicle he put in his mouth.
We were taken to the ice prison, a palace encrusted
with hoarfrost, its dome lit from within, Jocko admired
the wiring, he kicked the walls to test the strength
of his new boots.A television stood in a block of ice,
its blue image still moving like a liquid center.
You asked for my innermost thoughts.I wonder will I
ever see a grape again?When I think of the vineyard
where we met in October—when you dropped a cluster
custom insisted you be kissed by a stranger—how after
the harvest we plunged into a stream so icy our palms
turned pink.It seemed our future was sealed.Everyone
said so.It is quiet here.Not closing our ranks
weakens us hugely.The snowflakes fall in a featureless
bath.I am the stranger who kissed you.On sunny days
each tree is a glittering chandelier.The power of
mindless beauty!Jocko told a joke and has been dead
since May.A bullethole in his forehead the officers
call a third eye.For a month I milked a barnful of
cows.It is a lot like cleansing a chandelier.Wipe
and polish, wipe and polish, round and round you go.
I have lost my spectacles.Is the book I was reading
still open by the side of our bed?Treat it as a bookmark
saving my place in our story.
 
(here the letter breaks off)
Why I Am Not a Good Kisser
BY MARY RUEFLE 
Because I open my mouth too wide
Trying to take in the curtains behind us
And everything outside the window
Except the little black dog
Who does not like me
So at the last moment I shut my mouth.
 
Because Cipriano de Rore was not thinking
When he wrote his sacred and secular motets
Or there would be only one kind
And this affects my lips in terrible ways.
 
Because at the last minute I see a lemon
Sitting on a gravestone and that is a thing, a thing
That would appear impossible, and the kiss
Is already concluded in its entirety.
 
Because I learned everything about the beautiful
In a guide to the weather by Borin Van Loon, so
The nature of lenticular clouds and anticyclones
And several other things dovetail in my mind
& at once it strikes me what quality goes to form
A Good Kisser, especially at this moment, & which you
Possess so enormously—I mean when a man is capable
Of being in uncertainties, Mysteries & doubts without me
 
I am dreadfully afraid he will slip away
While my kiss is trying to think what to do.
 
Because I think you will try to read what is written
On my tongue and this causes me to interrupt with questions:
A red frock? Red stockings? And the rooster dead?
Dead of what?
 
Because of that other woman inside me who knows
How the red skirt and red stockings came into my mouth
But persists with the annoying questions
Leading to her genuine ignorance.
 
Because just when our teeth are ready to hide
I become a quisling and forget the election results
And industrial secrets leading to the manufacture
Of woolen ice cream cones, changing the futures
Of ice worms everywhere.
 
Can it be that even the greatest Kisser ever arrived
At his goal without putting aside numerous objections—
 
Because every kiss is like throwing a pair of doll eyes
Into the air and trying to follow them with your own—
 
However it may be, O for a life of Kisses
Instead of painting volcanoes!
 
Waiting for Icarus
BY MURIEL RUKEYSER
He said he would be back and we'd drink wine together
He said that everything would be better than before
He said we were on the edge of a new relation
He said he would never again cringe before his father
He said that he was going to invent full-time
He said he loved me that going into me
He said was going into the world and the sky
He said all the buckles were very firm
He said the wax was the best wax
He said Wait for me here on the beach
He said Just don't cry
I remember the gulls and the waves
I remember the islands going dark on the sea
I remember the girls laughing
I remember they said he only wanted to get away from me
I remember mother saying : Inventors are like poets,
a trashy lot
I remember she told me those who try out inventions are worse
I remember she added : Women who love such are the
Worst of all
I have been waiting all day, or perhaps longer.
I would have liked to try those wings myself.
It would have been better than this. 
HISTORY
by Tomaz Salamun
Tomaz Salamun is a monster.
Tomaz Salamun is a sphere rushing through the air.
He lies down in twilight, he swims in twilight.
People and I, we both look at him amazed, 
we wish him well, maybe he is a comet.
Maybe he is punishment from the gods,
the boundary stone of the world.
Maybe he is such a speck in the universe
that he will give energy to the planet
when oil, steel, and food run short.
He might only be a hump, his head
should be taken off like a spider's.
But something would then suck up
Tomaz Salamun, possibly the head.
Possibly he should be pressed between
glass, his photo should be taken.
He should be put in formaldehyde, so children
would look at him as they do foetuses,
protei, and mermaids.
Next year, he'll probably be in Hawaii
or in Ljubljana. Doorkeepers will scalp
tickets. People walk barefoot
to the university there. The waves can be
a hundred feet high. The city is fantastic,
shot through with people on the make,
the wind is mild.
But in Ljubljana people say: look!
This is Tomaz Salamun, he went to the store
with his wife Marushka to buy some milk.
He will drink it and this is history.

· Translated by Tomaz Salamun and Bob Perleman
Fourth of July, 2012
BY ROBYN SCHIFF
I remember a performance
of Antigone in which she
threw herself on the floor of
the universe and picked up
a piece of dust. Is that
the particle? It startled me.
Was it Scripted? Directed?
Driven? I am a girl, Antigone.
I have a sister. We love
each other terribly. I am a woman
of property. The milk of the footlights.
The folds of the curtain. I remember
a performance of Antigone. She stooped.
There was a wild particle.
It was glorified by my distance.
I heard the hooves of the dust.
The ticking of the script
calibrating oblivion. I saw
the particle hanging
and Antigone needed something
to do with her hands
and she did it.
New Kind of Light
BY ZACHARY SCHOMBURG
I move my hands
in these woods
to find her sex-parts.
 
We discover our sex-parts
make heat
and blue light.
 
We become outlines of ourselves—
 
long scratches
in the sky.
 
We have a daughter
who was never born.
 
She lives in the house
we never built,
 
but in this new light,
you can almost see
its tattered roof.
The Abandoned Hotel
BY ZACHARY SCHOMBURG

Inside the woods is an abandoned hotel.
Trees grow in the lobby
and up through the rooms.
Limbs jut out through the windows.
It looks like outside
inside.
 
I climb the trees
through 1000 rooms.
 
I look for you
in each of them.
 
You’re a long shiny line.
The Fire Cycle
BY ZACHARY SCHOMBURG
There are trees and they are on fire. There are hummingbirds and they are on fire. There are graves and they are on fire and the things coming out of the graves are on fire. The house you grew up in is on fire. There is a gigantic trebuchet on fire on the edge of a crater and the crater is on fire. There is a complex system of tunnels deep underneath the surface with only one entrance and one exit and the entire system is filled with fire. There is a wooden cage we’re trapped in, too large to see, and it is on fire. There are jaguars on fire. Wolves. Spiders. Wolf-spiders on fire. If there were people. If our fathers were alive. If we had a daughter. Fire to the edges. Fire in the river beds. Fire between the mattresses of the bed you were born in. Fire in your mother’s belly. There is a little boy wearing a fire shirt holding a baby lamb. There is a little girl in a fire skirt asking if she can ride the baby lamb like a horse. There is you on top of me with thighs of fire while a hot red fog hovers in your hair. There is me on top of you wearing a fire shirt and then pulling the fire shirt over my head and tossing it like a fireball through the fog at a new kind of dinosaur. There are meteorites disintegrating in the atmosphere just a few thousand feet above us and tiny fireballs are falling down around us, pooling around us, forming a kind of fire lake which then forms a kind of fire cloud. There is this feeling I get when I am with you. There is our future house burning like a star on the hill. There is our dark flickering shadow. There is my hand on fire in your hand on fire, my body on fire above your body on fire, our tongues made of ash. We are rocks on a distant and uninhabitable planet. We have our whole life ahead of us.
The Afterlife
by Lynne Sharon Schwartz
I dreamed I was in the afterlife, it was so crowded,
hordes of people, everyone seeking someone, staggering
every which way.
Who should I search for? The answer came quick: my mother.
I elbowed my way through strangers till I found her, worn,
like the day she died.
Mother, I cried, and threw my arms around her, but she
wasn’t happy to see me. Her arms hung limp. Help me,
I said. You’re my mother!
There are no mothers here, she said, just separate souls.
Everyone looks for their mother. I searched for mine, and found her
searching for her mother,
and so on, through the generations. Mothers, she said,
fathers, families, lovers are for the place you came from.
Here we’re on our own.
Here is no help, no love, only the looking. This
is what death means, my child, this is how we pass
Eternity, looking
for the love we no longer know how to give. I shuddered
myself awake. And yet–my child, she said, my child.
Or did I only dream
that word, dream within a dream?

Natasha in a Mellow Mood 
(apologies to Bullwinkle and Rocky)
By Tim Seibles
Boris, Dahlink, look
at my legs, long
as a lonely evening in Leningrad,
how they open the air
when I walk, the way moonlight
opens the dark. Boris, my hair
is so black with espionage,
so cool and quiet with all those secrets
so well kept—those secret plans
you’ve nearly kissed
into my ears. Who gives a proletarian
damn about Bullwinkle and that
flying squirrel and that idiot
who draws us? America
is a virgin, the cartoonist who leaves me
less than a Barbie doll under
this dress, who draws me
with no smell—he is a virgin.
the children who watch us
every Saturday mornink
are virgins. Boris, my sweet waterbug, I
don’t want to be a virgin anymore.
Look into my eyes, heavy
with the absence of laughter
and the presence of vodka. Listen
to my Russian lips muss up
these blonde syllables of English:
Iwantchu. Last night
I dreamed you spelled your
code name on my shoulder
with the waxed sprigs of your
moustache. I had just come
out of the bath. My skin was still
damp, my hair poured like ink
as I pulled the comb through it. Then
I heard you whisper, felt you take
my hand—Oh, Boris, Boris
Badenov, I want your mischief-
riddled eyes to invent
my whole body, all the silken
slopes of flesh forgotten
by the blind cartoonist. I want
to be scribbled all over you
in shapes no pencil would dare. Dahlink,
why don’t we take off
that funny little hat? Though
you are hardly tall
as my thighs, I want your pointy
shoes beside my bed, your
coat flung and fallen
like a double-agent
on my floor.
The State of New York
BY FREDERICK SEIDEL
I like the part I play.
They’ve cast me as Pompeii
The day before the day.
It’s my brilliant performance as a luxury man because I act that way.
They say: Just wait, you’ll see, you’ll pay,
Pompeii.
You’re a miracle in a whirlpool
In your blind date’s vagina
At your age. Nothin could be fina.
You eat off her bone china.
Don’t be a ghoul. Don’t be a fool,
You fool.
In the lifelong month of May,
Racing joyously on his moto poeta to the grave,
He’s his own fabulous slave.
He rides his superbike faster and faster to save
His master from the coming lava from China, every day,
But especially today, because it’s on its way.
Fred Astaire is about to explode
In his buff-colored kidskin gloves, revolving around
The gold knob of his walking stick, with the sound
Of Vesuvia playing,
And the slopes of Vesuvia saying
Her effluvia are in nearly overflowing mode.
Freud had predicted Fred.
In The Future of an Illusion he said:
“Movies are, in other words, the future of God.”
Nothing expresses ordinary wishes more dysplastically than current
American politics do. Breast augmentation as a deterrent
To too much government is odd.
Korean women in a shop on Madison give a pedicure to Pompeii.
Fred only knows that he’s not getting old.
Pompeii doesn’t know it’s the day before the day.
The governor of New York is legally blind, a metaphor for his state of mind.
He ought to resign, but he hasn’t resigned.
Good riddance, goodbye. The bell has tolled.
Baby goodbye
BY DIANE SEUSS
That was the summer it was just me
and Elmore James. The summer I had to
get my house in order. When I should have been
fixing the shattered glass in the garage windows
I lay there on the porch in my wicker love
seat listening to Elmore James, reading People
magazine and drinking cognac.
I’ll tell you, I needed
to learn some things. He’s beautiful, for instance,
but it's over. Be pissed, but accept the diamonds.
Look at the ways in which a girl can busy herself.
She can make sachets out of lavender and maxi pads.
That summer I had to get down to it. Pay the bills.
Kiss the man’s ass if it needs to be kissed 
in order to keep cable.
God says, caretake that house. Jesus, I
can feel myself dead
and gone, a family of blondes overtaking my home.
Elmore says, Sweep, devilwoman. I say, You're
cute. You beyond cute, he says, but check this
out: I’m dead. When I was alone,
I’d walk around narrating: The girl is walking down
the hall. The girl is removing her bra. The girl lowers
her copious tits into the bathwater. The girl is drinking
cognac out of a parfait glass. Yes I love her,
oh yes I love her, sure nuff I do. He strums
a guitar string like a clitoris.
I gotta leave you baby, please don’t make me stay.
You sing that shit it’s like you’re digging your own
grave. You're not seeking a cure, not sewing
up the seams or saying your Hail Marys. You don't
even dream of getting into heaven. Heaven.
Dreamhouse. A garden party in the back yard starring 
a cleaned up Mr. James in his uncomfortable tuxedo.
Fuck it. You dig until you die. You carve a hole
for your sadness and dance inside it, like a worm
in a jumping bean. Feel bad this morning. Feel
like I wanna cry. My lover’s hair was blue-black.
He presented the jewels to me in a blue velvet box.
Stars, he said, for the movie star. Tonight
my house roars with music. The noise ordinance
cops are on their way in their deep blue cars.
It’s deep. So deep, I whispered, biting down on his
ear lobe. I was a pit and he was falling. 
My hands on his warm ass. My chest is a guitar hole 
and I'm jacking up the music until the windows break. 
Gargle with cognac, with
semen, with sweat. Me and Elmore, a couple 
of ghosts leaning on each other.
Tomorrow we’ll paint the whole house blue.
Glue dimes on the walls to look like stars. I’m wearing
his hat, his tie. His slick shoes. 
I’ve lost my baby, almost lost my mind.
In search of the molecular structure of benzene
BY DIANE SEUSS
i got nothin to eat in this old house/ i gotta go out and catch a mouse/ 
i can't be wrong so i gotta be right/ it's eat or be eaten
– Iggy Pop, “Eat or Be Eaten”
Set the eggs on the stove to boil,
peeled the shells off the eggs, sliced
them in half with a little 
pepper, realized they tasted 
like me. It’s like I caught my own
egg just as it flew out of the fallopian,
like I was eating myself. I read somewhere
that the uterus is the size of a golf ball.
I pictured it as big as the seat of a 1958 
Schwinn Hornet, a pink one, 
and the fallopian tubes as long and glossy 
as chrome handlebars. Snakes eat their own
tails; the alchemists said so. Ouroboros,
they call it. A German chemist
took a despair-nap when he had hit the wall
in his search for the molecular structure
of benzene. He dreamed of a snake
eating its own tail and woke 
to understanding: the structure 
was a closed carbon ring. Benzene
apparently smells like lilacs and occurs
naturally as a result of volcanic eruption. 
You want some benzene, visit a volcano
on the edge of a grove of lilacs. The ovaries
of women who breathe benzene 
shrink. Generally, ovaries are no bigger
than an almond. An almond, and yet they cause
so much trouble. What’s smaller than an almond?
When I was une pucelle I became addicted 
to the egg sacs of fresh water fishes. I lived 
in an ice fishing shack for awhile during the summer,
a sort of rattletrap floating monastery
for a teenage Buddhist nun who liked masturbation
and egg sacs, though not necessarily in that
order. All I had to do to catch a fish was to open
the hatch in the floor and drop in the hook.
Sunfish egg sacs turn the color of sunrise 
when fried in safflower oil. It was egg sacs
and Oreo cookies and eternity, all summer
long. I hadn’t even started bleeding yet. 
I figured out a new way to play Solitaire
but I no longer remember how it’s done.
Somehow the deck of cards consumed itself
and licked its own fingers by midnight. 
Then I put the kerosene down 
on the floorboards and opened
the hatch. I swear I could see stars
down there. I could see myself, my black-green 
seaweed hair. Love wasn’t an issue; I knew
what I wanted and I knew how to get it.
Then, late in the summer, the blue racers
arrived, sunning themselves on my rocks.
I was walking around the pond backwards 
and I stepped into the center of a hot, 
coiled up racer. It tightened
around my ankle and laid its fangs in,
right up to the bone. I knew the thing
didn’t have the poison to kill me, went
chasing after it through the horse fields
which seemed to be covered in blue
racers sunning themselves, all mindless
and happy, and horses staring me down
like churchgoers. The lilacs were fried,
volcanoes dormant. Sun was setting,
the usual orange. I felt sad, impregnated
with sorrow. The shells of dead turtles
floated aimless over the pond. I dove
to the mucky bottom of that body
of water with my eyes wide open. 
It was the same temperature
as I was, a restless 98.6. I was trying
to escape myself but all I knew how to do
was to swim deeper into myself 
and I wasn’t enough for myself anymore.
Ouroboros. I napped down there, dreamed
I opened the carbon ring. Packed my reptile
suitcase, left my skin behind.

Men displayed the things we didn’t want to see
BY DIANE SEUSS
but needed to see anyway, they’d put on their work
gloves and grab a bat sleeping upside down in the attic
and hold it still so we’d have to look at its small eyes
and fangs, its triangle ears like a little dog’s,
and the black fuzz on its head sticking straight up
like the minister’s baby who died from crib death, they’d
gut a fish and cut open the egg sac or take out their own
glass eyes and roll them across the table, they’d slip out
their false teeth and smile at us or lead us down
to the tracks to see the woman in the car that had been
crushed by a train, or anything born with two heads
or an eye in the center of its forehead, or the burned
velvet curtains flapping in the wind around the black
stage when the opera house burned down. 
Song in my heart
BY DIANE SEUSS
If there’s pee on the seat it’s my pee,
battery’s dead I killed it, canary at the bottom
of the cage I bury it, like God tromping the sky
in his undershirt carrying his brass spittoon,
raging and sobbing in his Hush Puppy house
slippers with the backs broke down, no Mrs.
God to make him reasonable as he gets out
the straight razor to slice the hair off his face,
using the Black Sea as a mirror when everyone
knows the Black Sea is a terrible mirror,
like God is a terrible simile for me but like
God with his mirror, I use it.


You like it, don't you, you like it hard and cold
BY DIANE SEUSS
and sweet with surprises inside, you like cream, well let me introduce you to the State Line Dairy where the cherries in the sherbet are harvested from virgins and the girls filling the cones all have boyfriends in Vietnam and the thing in the jar on the counter is a pig's foot, let me introduce you to Bob's Country Club, there is no Bob or everyone's Bob, there are French fries and the juke box is all Mahalia and Mary Wells and Mrs. Bob is frying whities, easing them down into the grease, and the dance floor is empty but for Bob and the ghosts or you and me in a short short skirt and underpants from the Kresge's that is now a bingo hall, let me introduce you to the Happy House, a good plate of chop suey and the old ladies playing cards in the corner, it burned last weekend and now the egg rolls are ash and the pagoda and the neon calligraphy, let me show you where 
I peed, see how the ashes meet the woods, see the trillium sticking up like window peekers, have you ever seen a Chinese place with buttered dinner roles and funeral home placemats, you like it sweet and cold and creamy, you like it sweet and cold and creamy and hard, you like it with a spoon, have you tried it with a small wooden paddle, have you tried it down where the Indians are buried, have you tried it with an arrowhead poking you in the ass, have you eaten it with your hands, how about sobbing, have you swallowed it cold and creamy and hard and hollow and the rock salt still steaming in the grinder
45 Mercy Street
-Anne Sexton
In my dream, 
drilling into the marrow 
of my entire bone, 
my real dream, 
I'm walking up and down Beacon Hill 
searching for a street sign - 
namely MERCY STREET. 
Not there. 
I try the Back Bay. 
Not there. 
Not there. 
And yet I know the number. 
45 Mercy Street. 
I know the stained-glass window 
of the foyer, 
the three flights of the house 
with its parquet floors. 
I know the furniture and 
mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, 
the servants. 
I know the cupboard of Spode 
the boat of ice, solid silver, 
where the butter sits in neat squares 
like strange giant's teeth 
on the big mahogany table. 
I know it well. 
Not there. 
Where did you go? 
45 Mercy Street, 
with great-grandmother 
kneeling in her whale-bone corset 
and praying gently but fiercely 
to the wash basin, 
at five A.M. 
at noon 
dozing in her wiggy rocker, 
grandfather taking a nap in the pantry, 
grandmother pushing the bell for the downstairs maid, 
and Nana rocking Mother with an oversized flower 
on her forehead to cover the curl 
of when she was good and when she was... 
And where she was begat 
and in a generation 
the third she will beget, 
me, 
with the stranger's seed blooming 
into the flower called Horrid. 
I walk in a yellow dress 
and a white pocketbook stuffed with cigarettes, 
enough pills, my wallet, my keys, 
and being twenty-eight, or is it forty-five? 
I walk. I walk. 
I hold matches at street signs 
for it is dark, 
as dark as the leathery dead 
and I have lost my green Ford, 
my house in the suburbs, 
two little kids 
sucked up like pollen by the bee in me 
and a husband 
who has wiped off his eyes 
in order not to see my inside out 
and I am walking and looking 
and this is no dream 
just my oily life 
where the people are alibis 
and the street is unfindable for an 
entire lifetime. 
Pull the shades down - 
I don't care! 
Bolt the door, mercy, 
erase the number, 
rip down the street sign, 
what can it matter, 
what can it matter to this cheapskate 
who wants to own the past 
that went out on a dead ship 
and left me only with paper? 
Not there. 
I open my pocketbook, 
as women do, 
and fish swim back and forth 
between the dollars and the lipstick. 
I pick them out, 
one by one 
and throw them at the street signs, 
and shoot my pocketbook 
into the Charles River. 
Next I pull the dream off 
and slam into the cement wall 
of the clumsy calendar 
I live in, 
my life, 
and its hauled up 
notebooks. 
ANNA WHO WAS MAD
by Anne Sexton
Anna who was mad, 
I have a knife in my armpit.
When I stand on tiptoe I tap out messages.
Am I some sort of infection? 
Did I make you go insane? 
Did I make the sounds go sour? 
Did I tell you to climb out the window? 
Forgive. Forgive.
Say not I did.
Say not.
Say.
Speak Mary-words into our pillow.
Take me the gangling twelve-year-old
into your sunken lap.
Whisper like a buttercup.
Eat me. Eat me up like cream pudding.
Take me in.
Take me.
Take.
Give me a report on the condition of my soul.
Give me a complete statement of my actions.
Hand me a jack-in-the-pulpit and let me listen in.
Put me in the stirrups and bring a tour group through.
Number my sins on the grocery list and let me buy.
Did I make you go insane? 
Did I turn up your earphone and let a siren drive through? 
Did I open the door for the mustached psychiatrist
who dragged you out like a gold cart? 
Did I make you go insane? 
From the grave write me, Anna! 
You are nothing but ashes but nevertheless
pick up the Parker Pen I gave you.
Write me.
Consorting with Angels
-Anne Sexton
I was tired of being a woman, tired of the spoons and the post, tired of my mouth and my breasts, tired of the cosmetics and the silks. There were still men who sat at my table, circled around the bowl I offered up. The bowl was filled with purple grapes and the flies hovered in for the scent and even my father came with his white bone. But I was tired of the gender things.  Last night I had a dream and I said to it... "You are the answer. You will outlive my husband and my father." In that dream there was a city made of chains where Joan was put to death in man's clothes and the nature of the angels went unexplained, no two made in the same species, one with a nose, one with an ear in its hand, one chewing a star and recording its orbit, each one like a poem obeying itself, performing God's functions, a people apart.  "You are the answer," I said, and entered, lying down on the gates of the city. Then the chains were fastened around me and I lost my common gender and my final aspect. Adam was on the left of me and Eve was on the right of me, both thoroughly inconsistent with the world of reason. We wove our arms together and rode under the sun. I was not a woman anymore, not one thing or the other.  O daughters of Jerusalem, the king has brought me into his chamber. I am black and I am beautiful. I've been opened and undressed. I have no arms or legs. I'm all one skin like a fish. I'm no more a woman than Christ was a man.
Her Kind
Anne Sexton, 1928 - 1974
I have gone out, a possessed witch, haunting the black air, braver at night; dreaming evil, I have done my hitch over the plain houses, light by light: lonely thing, twelve-fingered, out of mind. A woman like that is not a woman, quite. I have been her kind.  I have found the warm caves in the woods, filled them with skillets, carvings, shelves, closets, silks, innumerable goods; fixed the suppers for the worms and the elves: whining, rearranging the disaligned. A woman like that is misunderstood. I have been her kind.  I have ridden in your cart, driver, waved my nude arms at villages going by, learning the last bright routes, survivor where your flames still bite my thigh and my ribs crack where your wheels wind. A woman like that is not ashamed to die. I have been her kind.
In Celebration of My Uterus
BY ANNE SEXTON
Everyone in me is a bird.
I am beating all my wings. 
They wanted to cut you out 
but they will not.
They said you were immeasurably empty 
but you are not.
They said you were sick unto dying 
but they were wrong.
You are singing like a school girl. 
You are not torn.
Sweet weight,
in celebration of the woman I am
and of the soul of the woman I am
and of the central creature and its delight 
I sing for you. I dare to live.
Hello, spirit. Hello, cup.
Fasten, cover. Cover that does contain. 
Hello to the soil of the fields.
Welcome, roots.
Each cell has a life.
There is enough here to please a nation.
It is enough that the populace own these goods. 
Any person, any commonwealth would say of it, 
“It is good this year that we may plant again 
and think forward to a harvest.
A blight had been forecast and has been cast out.”
Many women are singing together of this: 
one is in a shoe factory cursing the machine, 
one is at the aquarium tending a seal, 
one is dull at the wheel of her Ford, 
one is at the toll gate collecting,
one is tying the cord of a calf in Arizona, 
one is straddling a cello in Russia,
one is shifting pots on the stove in Egypt,
one is painting her bedroom walls moon color, 
one is dying but remembering a breakfast, 
one is stretching on her mat in Thailand, 
one is wiping the ass of her child,
one is staring out the window of a train 
in the middle of Wyoming and one is 
anywhere and some are everywhere and all 
seem to be singing, although some can not 
sing a note.
Sweet weight,
in celebration of the woman I am
let me carry a ten-foot scarf,
let me drum for the nineteen-year-olds,
let me carry bowls for the offering
(if that is my part).
Let me study the cardiovascular tissue,
let me examine the angular distance of meteors, 
let me suck on the stems of flowers
(if that is my part).
Let me make certain tribal figures
(if that is my part).
For this thing the body needs
let me sing
for the supper, 
for the kissing, 
for the correct 
yes.
Letter Written on a Ferry While Crossing Long Island Sound
BY ANNE SEXTON
I am surprised to see
that the ocean is still going on. 
Now I am going back
and I have ripped my hand
from your hand as I said I would 
and I have made it this far
as I said I would
and I am on the top deck now 
holding my wallet, my cigarettes 
and my car keys
at 2 o’clock on a Tuesday
in August of 1960.
Dearest,
although everything has happened,
nothing has happened. 
The sea is very old.
The sea is the face of Mary,
without miracles or rage
or unusual hope,
grown rough and wrinkled
with incurable age.
Still,
I have eyes.
These are my eyes:
the orange letters that spell 
ORIENT on the life preserver 
that hangs by my knees;
the cement lifeboat that wears 
its dirty canvas coat;
the faded sign that sits on its shelf 
saying KEEP OFF.
Oh, all right, I say,
I’ll save myself.
Over my right shoulder 
I see four nuns
who sit like a bridge club, 
their faces poked out 
from under their habits,
as good as good babies who 
have sunk into their carriages. 
Without discrimination 
the wind pulls the skirts 
of their arms.
Almost undressed,
I see what remains:
that holy wrist,
that ankle,
that chain.
Oh God,
although I am very sad,
could you please
let these four nuns
loosen from their leather boots
and their wooden chairs
to rise out
over this greasy deck, 
out over this iron rail,
nodding their pink heads to one side, 
flying four abreast
in the old-fashioned side stroke;
each mouth open and round,
breathing together 
as fish do,
singing without sound.
Dearest,
see how my dark girls sally forth,
over the passing lighthouse of Plum Gut, 
its shell as rusty
as a camp dish,
as fragile as a pagoda
on a stone;
out over the little lighthouse
that warns me of drowning winds
that rub over its blind bottom
and its blue cover;
winds that will take the toes
and the ears of the rider
or the lover.
There go my dark girls, 
their dresses puff 
in the leeward air.
Oh, they are lighter than flying dogs 
or the breath of dolphins;
each mouth opens gratefully,
wider than a milk cup.
My dark girls sing for this.
They are going up.
See them rise
on black wings, drinking
the sky, without smiles
or hands
or shoes.
They call back to us
from the gauzy edge of paradise,
good news, good news.
THE EXPATRIATES
By Anne Sexton
My dear, it was a moment
to clutch at for a moment
so that you may believe in it
and believing is the act of love, I think,
even in the telling, wherever it went.
In the false New England forest
where the misplanted Norwegian trees
refused to root, their thick synthetic
roots barging out of the dirt to work on the air,
we held hands and walked on our knees.
Actually, there was no one there.
For forty years this experimental
woodland grew, shaft by shaft in perfect rows
where its stub branches held and its spokes fell.
It was a place of parallel trees, their lives
filed out in exile where we walked too alien to know
our sameness and how our sameness survives.
Outside of us the village cars followed
the white line we had carefully walked
two nights before toward our single beds.
We lay halfway up an ugly hill and if we fell
it was here in the woods where the woods were caught
in their dying and you held me well.
And now I must dream the forest whole
and your sweet hands, not once as frozen
as those stopped trees, nor ruled, nor pale,
nor leaving mine. Today, in my house, I see
our house, its pillars a dim basement of men
holding up their foreign ground for you and me.
My dear, it was a time,
butchered from time
that we must tell of quickly
before we lose the sound of our own
mouths calling mine, mine, mine.
Sonnet 116: Let me not to the marriage of true minds
BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove.
O no! it is an ever-fixed mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me prov'd,
I never writ, nor no man ever lov'd.
A Poet’s Poem
BY BRENDA SHAUGHNESSY
If it takes me all day,
I will get the word freshened out of this poem.
I put it in the first line, then moved it to the second,
and now it won’t come out.
It’s stuck. I’m so frustrated,
so I went out to my little porch all covered in snow
and watched the icicles drip, as I smoked
a cigarette.
Finally I reached up and broke a big, clear spike
off the roof with my bare hand.
And used it to write a word in the snow.
I wrote the word snow.
I can’t stand myself.
Embarrassment
BY BRENDA SHAUGHNESSY
It’s a wave, isn’t it? Not a particle.
A fresh, cool wave, so why am I flushed
and not washed? Why dirtier than before?
 
 
1. Etymology
 
On the subject of our names.
They’re so embracing,
thinking they’re all us
 
and swallowing themselves
into our nausea.
 
Yet we never quite die on the spot.
We put off being what we’re called,
we take the hint.
 
Time is never wasted.
It is always spent.
 
 
2. Teleology
 
Sheer fabric trailing through 4 a.m.
I thought it was opaque and earlier.
 
 
3. Mathematics
 
I know you know I know.
And the mirror multiplies inside.
 
The world is no bigger, but next time
do the math,
 
because I wanted to know none
of what I now know twice.
 
 
4. The Principle of the Borg
 
Saying “There’s no one like me”
accomplishes the exact opposite
of what you mean.
 
It is true only insofar as it is true
for everyone equally.
 
So it means you are not special
in any way. Which should be enough for you.
 
 
5. Documentary
 
This clothing, a maladaptive wrapping,
cuts me up. I am a vignette,
 
floated knowingly
since I pulled myself through myself,
 
like a unitard. Too many eyeholes
 
have been cut and pieced together
to make flesh less various with others.
 
 
6. Medicine
 
The cure for embarrassment
is substitution.
 
Strap, don’t pluck.
Baldness makes headlines.
 
Use grass. Use less.
Shorts under your skirt for recess.
 
Redo the surfaces of your wrong turns to make
taking them smoother in the future.
 
 
7. Cosmology
 
Things are less embarrassing
at the cellular level. Remember?
 
We were a whole part of the universe
before Mother busted the party.
 
Before we were ourselves.
Now, like dirty soap, we
 
attract what we repel.
 
 
8. Apology
 
Even the clumsiest fate is perfectly shaped,
so the view took over looking
 
but the sweetest thing I’ve ever known
is obscene with a beautiful
 
sugar rotted down to its truth.
 
Loving you a serious accidental shame
and day flatulates into night,
 
trips and falls in front of millions
into morning.
 
In thrall to this pocus:
the end of fear starts
 
with such an annihilating blush,
with such a stutter.
I’m Over the Moon
BY BRENDA SHAUGHNESSY
I don’t like what the moon is supposed to do.
Confuse me, ovulate me,
spoon-feed me longing. A kind of ancient
date-rape drug. So I’ll howl at you, moon,
I’m angry. I’ll take back the night. Using me to
swoon at your questionable light,
you had me chasing you,
the world’s worst lover, over and over
hoping for a mirror, a whisper, insight.
But you disappear for nights on end
with all my erotic mysteries
and my entire unconscious mind.
How long do I try to get water from a stone?
It’s like having a bad boyfriend in a good band.
Better off alone. I’m going to write hard
and fast into you, moon, face-fucking.
Something you wouldn’t understand.
You with no swampy sexual
promise but what we glue onto you.
That’s not real. You have no begging
cunt. No panties ripped off and the crotch
sucked. No lacerating spasms
sending electrical sparks through the toes.
Stars have those.
What do you have? You’re a tool, moon.
Now, noon. There’s a hero.
The obvious sun, no bullshit, the enemy
of poets and lovers, sleepers and creatures.
But my lovers have never been able to read
my mind. I’ve had to learn to be direct.
It’s hard to learn that, hard to do.
The sun is worth ten of you.
You don’t hold a candle
to that complexity, that solid craze.
Like an animal carcass on the road at night,
picked at by crows,
taunting walkers and drivers. Your face
regularly sliced up by the moving
frames of car windows. Your light is drawn,
quartered, your dreams are stolen.
You change shape and turn away,
letting night solve all night’s problems alone.
Postfeminism
BY BRENDA SHAUGHNESSY
There are two kinds of people, soldiers and women,
as Virginia Woolf said. Both for decoration only.
Now that is too kind. It’s technical: virgins and wolves.
We have choices now. Two little girls walk into a bar,
one orders a shirley temple. Shirley Temple’s pimp
comes over and says you won’t be sorry. She’s a fine
piece of work but she don’t come cheap. Myself, I’m
in less fear of predators than of walking around
in my mother’s body. That’s sneaky, that’s more
than naked. Let’s even it up: you go on fuming in your
gray room. I am voracious alone. Blank and loose,
metallic lingerie. And rare black-tipped cigarettes
in a handmade basket case. Which of us weaves
the world together with a quicker blur of armed
seduction: your war-on-thugs, my body stockings.
Ascetic or carnivore. Men will crack your glaze
even if you leave them before morning. Pigs
ride the sirens in packs. Ah, flesh, technoflesh,
there are two kinds of people. Hot with mixed
light, drunk on insult. You and me.
Hate Poem
BY JULIE SHEEHAN
I hate you truly. Truly I do.
Everything about me hates everything about you.
The flick of my wrist hates you.
The way I hold my pencil hates you.
The sound made by my tiniest bones were they trapped in the jaws of a moray eel hates you.
Each corpuscle singing in its capillary hates you.
Look out! Fore! I hate you.
The little blue-green speck of sock lint I'm trying to dig from under my third toenail, left foot,  	hates you.
The history of this keychain hates you.
My sigh in the background as you pick out the cashews hates you.
The goldfish of my genius hates you.
My aorta hates you. Also my ancestors.
A closed window is both a closed window and an obvious symbol of how I hate you.
My voice curt as a hairshirt: hate.
My hesitation when you invite me for a drive: hate.
My pleasant "good morning": hate.
You know how when I'm sleepy I nuzzle my head under your arm? Hate.
The whites of my target-eyes articulate hate. My wit practices it.
My breasts relaxing in their holster from morning to night hate you.
Layers of hate, a parfait.
Hours after our latest row, brandishing the sharp glee of hate,
I dissect you cell by cell, so that I might hate each one individually and at leisure.
My lungs, duplicitous twins, expand with the utter validity of my hate, which can never have  	enough of you,
Breathlessly, like two idealists in a broken submarine.

Last August Hours Before the Year 2000
BY NAOMI SHIHAB NYE
Spun silk of mercy,
long-limbed afternoon,
sun urging purple blossoms from baked stems. 
What better blessing than to move without hurry 
under trees?
Lugging a bucket to the rose that became a twining 
house by now, roof and walls of vine—
you could live inside this rose.
Pouring a slow stream around the
ancient pineapple crowned with spiky fruit, 
I thought we would feel old
by the year 2000.
Walt Disney thought cars would fly.
What a drama to keep thinking the last summer 
the last birthday
before the calendar turns to zeroes.
My neighbor says anything we plant
in September takes hold.
She’s lining pots of little grasses by her walk.
I want to know the root goes deep 
on all that came before,
you could lay a soaker hose across 
your whole life and know
there was something
under layers of packed summer earth 
and dry blown grass
to moisten.
pantoum: landing, 1976
BY EVIE SHOCKLEY
dreaming the lives of the ancestors,
you awake, justly terrified of this world:
you could dance underwater and not get wet,
you hear, but the pressure is drowning you:
 
you’re awake, but just terrified of this world,
where all solids are ice: underwater boogie,
you hear, but the press sure is drowning you:
the igbo were walking, not dancing:
where all solids are ice, underwater boogie
is good advice, because they’re quick to melt:
the igbo were straight up walking, not dancing:
and you’ve still got to get through this life:
 
take my advice, quickly: they’re melting:
you could dance underwater and not get wet:
and you’ve got to, to get through this life still
dreaming the lives of the ancestors
Litany in Which Certain Things Are Crossed Out
BY RICHARD SIKEN
Every morning the maple leaves.
 	Every morning another chapter where the hero shifts
from one foot to the other. Every morning the same big
and little words all spelling out desire, all spelling out
 You will be alone always and then you will die.
So maybe I wanted to give you something more than a catalog
 of non-definitive acts,
something other than the desperation.
 	Dear So-and-So, I’m sorry I couldn’t come to your party.
Dear So-and-So, I’m sorry I came to your party
 and seduced you
and left you bruised and ruined, you poor sad thing.
 You want a better story. Who wouldn’t?
A forest, then. Beautiful trees. And a lady singing.
Love on the water, love underwater, love, love and so on.
What a sweet lady. Sing lady, sing! Of course, she wakes the dragon.
Love always wakes the dragon and suddenly
 	flames everywhere.
I can tell already you think I’m the dragon,
	that would be so like me, but I’m not. I’m not the dragon.
I’m not the princess either.
 Who am I? I’m just a writer. I write things down.
I walk through your dreams and invent the future. Sure,
 	I sink the boat of love, but that comes later. And yes, I swallow
 glass, but that comes later.
	And the part where I push you
flush against the wall and every part of your body rubs against the bricks,
shut up
I’m getting to it.
For a while I thought I was the dragon.
I guess I can tell you that now. And, for a while, I thought I was
the princess,
cotton candy pink, sitting there in my room, in the tower of the castle,
	young and beautiful and in love and waiting for you with
confidence
but the princess looks into her mirror and only sees the princess,
while I’m out here, slogging through the mud, breathing fire,
 and getting stabbed to death.
Okay, so I’m the dragon. Big deal.
	You still get to be the hero.
You get magic gloves! A fish that talks! You get eyes like flashlights!
What more do you want?
I make you pancakes, I take you hunting, I talk to you as if you’re
really there.
Are you there, sweetheart? Do you know me? Is this microphone live?
 	Let me do it right for once,
 	for the record, let me make a thing of cream and stars that becomes,
you know the story, simply heaven.
 	Inside your head you hear a phone ringing
 and when you open your eyes
only a clearing with deer in it. Hello deer.
 	Inside your head the sound of glass,
a car crash sound as the trucks roll over and explode in slow motion.
 	Hello darling, sorry about that.
 	Sorry about the bony elbows, sorry we
lived here, sorry about the scene at the bottom of the stairwell
and how I ruined everything by saying it out loud.
Especially that, but I should have known.
You see, I take the parts that I remember and stitch them back together
to make a creature that will do what I say
or love me back.
I’m not really sure why I do it, but in this version you are not
feeding yourself to a bad man
 	against a black sky prickled with small lights.
I take it back.
The wooden halls like caskets. These terms from the lower depths.
I take them back.
Here is the repeated image of the lover destroyed.
 	Crossed out.
Clumsy hands in a dark room. Crossed out. There is something
underneath the floorboards.
 	Crossed out. And here is the tabernacle
	reconstructed.
Here is the part where everyone was happy all the time and we were all
 forgiven,
even though we didn’t deserve it.
	Inside your head you hear
a phone ringing, and when you open your eyes you’re washing up
in a stranger’s bathroom,
standing by the window in a yellow towel, only twenty minutes away
 from the dirtiest thing you know.
All the rooms of the castle except this one, says someone, and suddenly
	darkness,
 	suddenly only darkness.
In the living room, in the broken yard,
	in the back of the car as the lights go by. In the airport
	bathroom’s gurgle and flush, bathed in a pharmacy of
unnatural light,
 	my hands looking weird, my face weird, my feet too far away.
And then the airplane, the window seat over the wing with a view
	of the wing and a little foil bag of peanuts.
I arrived in the city and you met me at the station,
	smiling in a way
	that made me frightened. Down the alley, around the arcade,
	up the stairs of the building
to the little room with the broken faucets, your drawings, all your things,
I looked out the window and said
This doesn’t look that much different from home,
because it didn’t,
but then I noticed the black sky and all those lights.
 	We walked through the house to the elevated train.
All these buildings, all that glass and the shiny beautiful
 	mechanical wind.
We were inside the train car when I started to cry. You were crying too,
smiling and crying in a way that made me
even more hysterical. You said I could have anything I wanted, but I
	just couldn’t say it out loud.
Actually, you said Love, for you,
 	is larger than the usual romantic love. It’s like a religion. It’s
 	terrifying. No one
 	will ever want to sleep with you.
Okay, if you’re so great, you do it—
	here’s the pencil, make it work . . .
If the window is on your right, you are in your own bed. If the window
is over your heart, and it is painted shut, then we are breathing
river water.
Build me a city and call it Jerusalem. Build me another and call it
 	Jerusalem.
	We have come back from Jerusalem where we found not
what we sought, so do it over, give me another version,
 	a different room, another hallway, the kitchen painted over
and over,
 	another bowl of soup.
The entire history of human desire takes about seventy minutes to tell.
 	Unfortunately, we don’t have that kind of time.
 	Forget the dragon,
leave the gun on the table, this has nothing to do with happiness.
	Let’s jump ahead to the moment of epiphany,
 	in gold light, as the camera pans to where
the action is,
 	lakeside and backlit, and it all falls into frame, close enough to see
	the blue rings of my eyes as I say
 	something ugly.
I never liked that ending either. More love streaming out the wrong way,
 	and I don’t want to be the kind that says the wrong way.
But it doesn’t work, these erasures, this constant refolding of the pleats.
	There were some nice parts, sure,
all lemondrop and mellonball, laughing in silk pajamas
 	and the grains of sugar
	on the toast, love love or whatever, take a number. I’m sorry
	it’s such a lousy story.
Dear Forgiveness, you know that recently
 we have had our difficulties and there are many things
	I want to ask you.
I tried that one time, high school, second lunch, and then again,
 	years later, in the chlorinated pool.
	I am still talking to you about help. I still do not have
 	these luxuries.
I have told you where I’m coming from, so put it together.
We clutch our bellies and roll on the floor . . .
 	When I say this, it should mean laughter,
not poison.
I want more applesauce. I want more seats reserved for heroes.
Dear Forgiveness, I saved a plate for you.
	Quit milling around the yard and come inside.
Scheherazade
-Richard Siken
Tell me about the dream where we pull the bodies out of the lake
 and dress them in warm clothes again.
 How it was late, and no one could sleep, the horses running
until they forget that they are horses.
 It’s not like a tree where the roots have to end somewhere,
 it’s more like a song on a policeman’s radio,
 how we rolled up the carpet so we could dance, and the days
were bright red, and every time we kissed there was another apple
 to slice into pieces.
Look at the light through the windowpane. That means it’s noon, that means
 we’re inconsolable.
 Tell me how all this, and love too, will ruin us.
These, our bodies, possessed by light.
Tell me we’ll never get used to it.

 Bed Music
BY CHARLES SIMIC 
Our love was new,
But your bedsprings were old.
In the flat below,
They stopped eating with forks in the air.
They made the old sourpuss
Climb the stairs
And squint through the keyhole,
While we went right ahead 
Making the springs toot,
Playing “Low down on the Bayou,”
Playing “Big Leg Mama,”
Playing “Shake It Baby”
And “Carolina Shout.”
That was the limit!
They called the fire brigade.
They called the Law.
They could have brought some hooch, 
We told the cops.
Crazy About Her Shrimp
BY CHARLES SIMIC 
We don't even take time 
To come up for air. 
We keep our mouths full and busy 
Eating bread and cheese 
And smooching in between.
No sooner have we made love 
Than we are back in the kitchen. 
While I chop the hot peppers, 
She grins at me 
And stirs the shrimp on the stove.
How good the wine tastes 
That has run red 
Out of a laughing mouth! 
Down her chin 
And on to her naked tits.
'I'm getting fat,' she says, 
Turning this way and that way 
Before the mirror. 
'I'm crazy about her shrimp!' 
I shout to the gods above. 
Euphemia Gray's Pubis
For John Yau
 As for me, I like them with plenty of hair, Mr. Ruskin. I remember soaping the crotch of a certain Miss L. in the sea at dusk, while she soaped mine. The water was cold, but we were burning. Our kisses made the night hurry, the sun take its time setting. 
 Marble nymphs in the park surrounded by purse snatchers, how sad they always seem! Lay down your bow and arrows, Daphne, and grill us some sausages on the stove. Your ass is bare, your hair is in wild disarray. The sound of our antique bedsprings reaches to the museum across the street. 
 The visitors don't know what to make of it. Someone is moaning, someone is whispering obscenities around the child Madonna. They pretend not to hear, they stop to view and admire her briefly, and then stroll on, like fish in a fishtank we'll be having for late dinner tonight.
Obscure Beginnings
-Charles Simic
I was a winter fly on the ceiling
In the house of arachnids.
Silence reigned. Queen Insomnia
Sipped tea in the parlor,
Death and Judgment by her side.
The ceiling was a polar expedition.
The window a theater of cruelty
With it’s view of the pretty meadows:
Sheep nibbling wildflowers,
And the sky beyond them vast and empty.
Death notices posted in every room.
The woman dressing a small child for slaughter
In a convent’s school uniform.
The ceiling pale as the flowers.
The red parrot screaming in the parrot house.
American Classic
BY LOUIS SIMPSON
It’s a classic American scene –
a car stopped off the road
and a man trying to repair it.
The woman who stays in the car
in the classic American scene
stares back at the freeway trafﬁc.
They look surprised, and ashamed
to be so helpless…
let down in the middle of the road!
To think that their car would do this!
They look like mountain people
whose son has gone against the law.
But every night they set out food
and the robber goes skulking back to the trees.
That’s how it is with the car…
it’s theirs, they’re stuck with it.
Now they know what it’s like to sit
and see the world go whizzing by.
In the fume of carbon monoxide and dust
they are not such good Americans
as they thought they were.
The feeling of being left out
through no fault of your own is common.
That’s why I say, an American classic
Sci-Fi
BY TRACY K. SMITH
There will be no edges, but curves.
Clean lines pointing only forward.
History, with its hard spine & dog-eared
Corners, will be replaced with nuance,
Just like the dinosaurs gave way
To mounds and mounds of ice.
Women will still be women, but
The distinction will be empty. Sex,
Having outlived every threat, will gratify
Only the mind, which is where it will exist.
For kicks, we'll dance for ourselves
Before mirrors studded with golden bulbs.
The oldest among us will recognize that glow—
But the word sun will have been re-assigned
To the Standard Uranium-Neutralizing device
Found in households and nursing homes.
And yes, we'll live to be much older, thanks
To popular consensus. Weightless, unhinged,
Eons from even our own moon, we'll drift
In the haze of space, which will be, once
And for all, scrutable and safe.
The Good Life
BY TRACY K. SMITH
When some people talk about money
They speak as if it were a mysterious lover
Who went out to buy milk and never
Came back, and it makes me nostalgic
For the years I lived on coffee and bread,
Hungry all the time, walking to work on payday
Like a woman journeying for water
From a village without a well, then living
One or two nights like everyone else
On roast chicken and red wine.

The Universe: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack
BY TRACY K. SMITH
The first track still almost swings. High hat and snare, even
A few bars of sax the stratosphere will singe-out soon enough.
Synthesized strings. Then something like cellophane
Breaking in as if snagged to a shoe. Crinkle and drag. White noise,
Black noise. What must be voices bob up, then drop, like metal shavings
In molasses. So much for us. So much for the flags we bored
Into planets dry as chalk, for the tin cans we filled with fire
And rode like cowboys into all we tried to tame. Listen:
The dark we've only ever imagined now audible, thrumming,
Marbled with static like gristly meat. A chorus of engines churns.
Silence taunts: a dare. Everything that disappears
Disappears as if returning somewhere.
Skinhead
by Patricia Smith
They call me skinhead, and I got my own beauty.
It is knife-scrawled across my back in sore, jagged letters, 
it’s in the way my eyes snap away from the obvious.
I sit in my dim matchbox, 
on the edge of a bed tousled with my ragged smell,
slide razors across my hair,
count how many ways
I can bring blood closer to the surface of my skin.
These are the duties of the righteous,
the ways of the anointed.
The face that moves in my mirror is huge and pockmarked, 
scraped pink and brilliant, apple-cheeked, 
I am filled with my own spit.
Two years ago, a machine that slices leather
sucked in my hand and held it,
whacking off three fingers at the root.
I didn’t feel nothing till I looked down
and saw one of them on the floor
next to my boot heel,
and I ain’t worked since then.
I sit here and watch niggers take over my TV set,
walking like kings up and down the sidewalks in my head,
walking like their fat black mamas named them freedom.
My shoulders tell me that ain’t right.
So I move out into the sun
where my beauty makes them lower their heads,
or into the night
with a lead pipe up my sleeve,
a razor tucked in my boot.
I was born to make things right.
It’s easy now to move my big body into shadows,
to move from a place where there was nothing
into the stark circle of a streetlight,
the pipe raised up high over my head.
It’s a kick to watch their eyes get big,
round and gleaming like cartoon jungle boys,
right in that second when they know
the pipe’s gonna come down, and I got this thing
I like to say, listen to this, I like to say
“Hey, nigger, Abe Lincoln’s been dead a long time.”
I get hard listening to their skin burst.
I was born to make things right.
Then this newspaper guy comes around,
seems I was a little sloppy kicking some fag’s ass
and he opened his hole and screamed about it.
This reporter finds me curled up in my bed,
those TV flashes licking my face clean.
Same ol’ shit.
Ain’t got no job, the coloreds and spics got ’em all.
Why ain’t I working? Look at my hand, asshole.
No, I ain’t part of no organized group,
I’m just a white boy who loves his race,
fighting for a pure country.
Sometimes it’s just me. Sometimes three. Sometimes 30.
AIDS will take care of the faggots,
then it’s gon’ be white on black in the streets.
Then there’ll be three million.
I tell him that.
So he writes it up
and I come off looking like some kind of freak,
like I’m Hitler himself. I ain’t that lucky,
but I got my own beauty.
It is in my steel-toed boots,
in the hard corners of my shaved head.
I look in the mirror and hold up my mangled hand, 
only the baby finger left, sticking straight up, 
I know it’s the wrong goddamned finger, 
but fuck you all anyway.
I’m riding the top rung of the perfect race,
my face scraped pink and brilliant.
I’m your baby, America, your boy,
drunk on my own spit, I am goddamned fuckin’ beautiful.
And I was born
and raised
right here.
Pretty
BY STEVIE SMITH
Why is the word pretty so underrated?
In November the leaf is pretty when it falls 
The stream grows deep in the woods after rain 
And in the pretty pool the pike stalks
He stalks his prey, and this is pretty too, 
The prey escapes with an underwater flash 
But not for long, the great fish has him now 
The pike is a fish who always has his prey
And this is pretty. The water rat is pretty
His paws are not webbed, he cannot shut his nostrils 
As the otter can and the beaver, he is torn between 
The land and water. Not ‘torn’, he does not mind.
The owl hunts in the evening and it is pretty
The lake water below him rustles with ice
There is frost coming from the ground, in the air mist 
All this is pretty, it could not be prettier.
Yes, it could always be prettier, the eye abashes 
It is becoming an eye that cannot see enough, 
Out of the wood the eye climbs. This is prettier 
A field in the evening, tilting up.
The field tilts to the sky. Though it is late 
The sky is lighter than the hill field
All this looks easy but really it is extraordinary 
Well, it is extraordinary to be so pretty.
And it is careless, and that is always pretty
This field, this owl, this pike, this pool are careless, 
As Nature is always careless and indifferent
Who sees, who steps, means nothing, and this is pretty.
So a person can come along like a thief—pretty!—
Stealing a look, pinching the sound and feel, 
Lick the icicle broken from the bank
And still say nothing at all, only cry pretty.
Cry pretty, pretty, pretty and you’ll be able 
Very soon not even to cry pretty
And so be delivered entirely from humanity 
This is prettiest of all, it is very pretty.
Tonight, in Oakland
BY DANEZ SMITH
I did not come here to sing a blues.
Lately, I open my mouth
 
& out comes marigolds, yellow plums.
I came to make the sky a garden.
 
Give me rain or give me honey, dear lord.
The sky has given us no water this year.
 
I ride my bike to a boy, when I get there
what we make will not be beautiful
 
or love at all, but it will be deserved.
I’ve started seeking men to wet the harvest.
 
Come, tonight I declare we must move
instead of pray. Tonight, east of here,
two boys, one dressed in what could be blood
 
& one dressed in what could be blood
before the wound, meet & mean mug
 
& God, tonight, let them dance! Tonight,
the bullet does not exist. Tonight, the police
 
have turned to their God for forgiveness.
Tonight, we bury nothing, we serve a God
 
with no need for shovels, we serve a God
with a bad hip & a brother in prison.
 
Tonight, let every man be his own lord.
Let wherever two people stand be a reunion
 
of ancient lights. Let’s waste the moon’s marble glow
shouting our names to the stars until we are
 
the stars. O, precious God! O, sweet black town!
I am drunk & I thirst. When I get to the boy
 
who lets me practice hunger with him
I will not give him the name of your newest ghost
 
I will give him my body & what he does with it
is none of my business, but I will say look,
 
I made it a whole day, still, no rain
still, I am without exit wound
 
& he will say Tonight, I want to take you
how the police do, unarmed & sudden
 
& tonight, when we dream, we dream of dancing
in a city slowly becoming ash.
The Drag Queen Dies in New Castle
BY BRUCE SNIDER
Returning home 
at twenty-nine, you made 
a bed your throne, your 
brothers carrying you 
from room to room, 
each one in turn holding 
the glass to your lips, 
though you were the oldest 
of the brood. Buried 
by the barn, you vanished, 
but the church women 
bought your wigs 
for the Christmas pageant 
that year, your blouses sewn 
into a quilt under which 
two newlyweds lay, 
skin to skin as if they 
carried some sense 
of your undressing. Skirts 
swayed where sheep grazed 
the plow and the farmer 
reached between legs 
to pull out the calf, 
fluid gushing to his feet. 
On lines across town, 
dresses flapped empty 
over mulch while you 
kept putting on your show, 
bones undressing like 
it’s never over, throwing 
ov your last great shift 
where a fox snake sank 
its teeth into a corn 
toad’s back, the whole 
field flush with clover.
Who Steals My Good Name
BY W. D. SNODGRASS
For the person who obtained my debit card number and spent $11,000 in five days
My pale stepdaughter, just off the school bus, 
Scowled, "Well, that's the last time I say my name's 
Snodgrass!" Just so, may that anonymous 
Mexican male who prodigally claims 
My clan lines, identity and the sixteen 
Digits that unlock my bank account, 
Think twice. That less than proper name's been 
Taken by three ex-wives, each for an amount 
Past all you've squandered, each more than pleased 
To change it back. That surname you affect 
May have more consequence than getting teased 
By dumb kids or tracked down by bank detectives. 
Don't underrate its history: one of ours played 
Piano on his prison's weekly broadcast; 
One got rich on a scammed quiz show; one made 
A bungle costing the World Series. My own past 
Could subject you to guilt by association: 
If you write anything more than false checks, 
Abandon all hope of large press publication 
Or prizes—critics shun the name like sex
Without a condom. Whoever steals my purse 
Helps chain me to my writing desk again 
For fun and profit. So take thanks with my curse: 
May your pen name help send you to your pen.
Billy the Kid
BY JACK SPICER
I.
The radio that told me about the death of Billy The Kid
(And the day, a hot summer day, with birds in the sky)
Let us fake out a frontier — a poem somebody could hide in with a sheriff’s posse after him — a thousand miles of it if it is necessary for him to go a thousand miles — a poem with no hard corners, no houses to get lost in, no underwebbing of customary magic, no New York Jew salesmen of amethyst pajamas, only a place where Billy The Kid can hide when he shoots people.
Torture gardens and scenic railways. The radio
That told me about the death of Billy The Kid
The day a hot summer day. The roads dusty in the summer. The roads going somewhere. You can almost see where they are going beyond the dark purple of the horizon. Not even the birds know where they are going.
The poem. In all that distance who could recognize his face.

II.
A sprinkling of gold leaf looking like hell flowers
A flat piece of wrapping paper, already wrinkled, but wrinkled
again by hand, smoothed into shape by an electric iron
A painting
Which told me about the death of Billy The Kid.
Collage a binding together
Of the real
Which flat colors
Tell us what heroes
really come by.
No, it is not a collage. Hell flowers
Fall from the hands of heroes
fall from all our hands
flat
As if we were not ever able quite to include them.
His gun
does not shoot real bullets
his death
Being done is unimportant.
Being done
In those flat colors
Not a collage
A binding together, a
Memory. 
III.
There was nothing at the edge of the river
But dry grass and cotton candy.
"Alias," I said to him. "Alias,
Somebody there makes us want to drink the river
Somebody wants to thirst us.”
"Kid," he said. "No river
Wants to trap men. There ain’t no malice in it. Try
To understand.”
We stood there by that little river and Alias took off his shirt
and I took off my shirt
I was never real. Alias was never real.
Or that big cotton tree or the ground.
Or the little river.
IV.
What I mean is
I
Will tell you about the pain
It was a long pain
About as wide as a curtain
But long
As the great outdoors
Stig-
mata
Three bullet holes in the groin
One in the head
dancing
Right below the left eyebrow
What I mean is I
Will tell you about his
Pain.
V.
Billy The Kid in a field of poplars with just one touch of moonlight
His shadow is carefully
distinguished from all of their shadows
Delicate
as perception is
No one will get his gun or obliterate
Their shadows
VI.
The gun
A false clue
Nothing can kill
Anybody.
Not a poem or a fat penis. Bang,
Bang, bang. A false
Clue.
Nor immortality either (though why immortality should occur to
me with somebody who was as mortal as Billy The Kid or
his gun which is now rusted in some rubbish heap or shined
up properly in some New York museum) A
False clue
Nothing
Can kill anybody. Your guy, Billy,
And your fresh
Face.
VII.
Grasshoppers swarm through the desert.
Within the desert
There are only grasshoppers.
Lady
Of Guadalupe
Make my sight clear
Make my breath pure
Make my strong arm stronger and my fingers tight.
Lady of Guadalupe, lover
Of many make
Me avenge
Them.
VIII.
Back where poetry is Our Lady
Watches each motion when the players take the cards
From the deck.
The Ten of Diamonds. The Jack of Spades. The Queen
of Clubs. The King of Hearts. The Ace
God gave us when he put us alive writing poetry for unsuspecting
people or shooting them with guns.
Our Lady
Stands as a kind of dancing partner for the memory.
Will you dance, Our Lady,
Dead and unexpected?
Billy wants you to dance
Billy
Will shoot the heels off your shoes if you don’t dance
Billy
Being dead also wants
Fun.
IX.
So the heart breaks
Into small shadows
Almost so random
They are meaningless
Like a diamond
Has at the center of it a diamond
Or a rock
Rock.
Being afraid
Love asks its bare question—
I can no more remember
What brought me here
Than bone answers bone in the arm
Or shadow sees shadow— 
Deathward we ride in the boat
Like someone canoeing
In a small lake
Where at either end
There are nothing but pine-branches—
Deathward we ride in the boat
Broken-hearted or broken-bodied
The choice is real. The diamond. I
Ask it.
X. 
Billy The Kid
I love you
Billy The Kid
I back anything you say
And there was the desert
And the mouth of the river
Billy The Kid
(In spite of your death notices)
There is honey in the groin
Billy
Salt Hill
BY JANE SPRINGER
I was born in a Tennessee sanatorium hours after my mother’s father died & I know
how the womb becomes a salt-sea grave.
 
I was born in the last seconds of small crops & small change rained down on the
collection plate’s felt palate & I know
 
the soul’s barn debt to past generations, too.
 
Outside, ditchfuls of chicory flashed in the after-rain sun as melancholia’s purple
scent rose & its steepled fog distilled in Tennessee hills.
 
& I know I’m not supposed to be here on account of all those crazy aunts & I know
great grandma was five
 
when her Cherokee mother died & her daddy dumped her on the red clay curb
of an Arkansas reservation then drove away in a wagon—
 
how she just strode the fields of milkweed back to Tennessee & married her cousin.
 
When I was five I drowned a fly in a piepan of water then spooned it out & heaped
a hill of salt on its still body until I could hear a buzz again (as if within a belly)
 
& I know the rush of the resurrected.
 
I was born in the last decade of small town girls wearing white gloves to funerals.
 
As an infant my boy quit suckling long enough to wave to my mother’s ghost—
who used to drift in the doorway of the hours.
 
& at three he told me at my age he had red hair & broke his neck falling off
a runaway horse—I know
 
	the rocking chair’s set too close to the edge of the porch
Traveling through the Dark
BY WILLIAM E. STAFFORD
Traveling through the dark I found a deer
dead on the edge of the Wilson River road.
It is usually best to roll them into the canyon:
that road is narrow; to swerve might make more dead.
By glow of the tail-light I stumbled back of the car 
and stood by the heap, a doe, a recent killing; 
she had stiffened already, almost cold.
I dragged her off; she was large in the belly.
My fingers touching her side brought me the reason—
her side was warm; her fawn lay there waiting, 
alive, still, never to be born.
Beside that mountain road I hesitated.
The car aimed ahead its lowered parking lights; 
under the hood purred the steady engine.
I stood in the glare of the warm exhaust turning red; 
around our group I could hear the wilderness listen.
I thought hard for us all—my only swerving—, 
then pushed her over the edge into the river.
Amaranth
-Frank Stanford
There are no starfish in the sky tonight,
But there is one below your belly,
And there are cold evenings in your eyes.
If I could get to your house
I would look under the bed of your childhood,
The tongueless loafer without laces or eyes,
The cave of your young foot
With its odor of moon, its dampness
Coming from underground, your shoe
Which also bled and is now an island.
You have to remember these are the memories
Of a survivor, you have to remember.
You could be looking for clay to haul away,
Fill for the deep washouts of your love.
All your old loves, they bled to death, too.
Your hair is like a cemetery full of hands,
Fingers in the moonlight.
When you come down to the heart
Bring your post-hole diggers and crowbar.
Do not set a corner, a fence won’t last.
Do not bury our first child there,
Or set a post,
Although I have tasted blood on the lips of a stranger,
At night and in the rain.
Between Love and Death
by Frank Stanford
I watched the woman in the room.
She moved in her misery
Like a pine in the wind.
I could hear the woman sweeping her floors,
Boiling roots, and drinking milk.
I could watch the woman
Turning the tap of her bath
Through the hole in the wall.
On the summer nights I whistled,
Wanting her to hear me.
She would look my way, sometimes,
With an apple core in her mouth.
Working late, overhauling her truck,
She would drink coffee and hum,
Go to sleep with grease on her fingers.
God I was crazy for not
Going to her door,
Tapping on her window,
Following her to the river
Where her dory grew wet like the moon.
A bird sick of its tree, I despair.
Leaves without wind, I lay
Damp and quiet on the earth.
She bled through the walls
Into my side of the house,
And they came with their lights
Asking did I know the woman,
And I said no, not I.
Freedom, Revolt, and Love
BY FRANK STANFORD
They caught them.
They were sitting at a table in the kitchen.
It was early.
They had on bathrobes.
They were drinking coffee and smiling.
She had one of his cigarillos in her fingers.
She had her legs tucked up under her in the chair.
They saw them through the window.
She thought of them stepping out of a bath
And him wrapping cloth around her.
He thought of her waking up in a small white building,
He thought of stones settling into the ground.
Then they were gone.
Then they came in through the back.
Her cat ran out.
The house was near the road.
She didn’t like the cat going out.
They stayed at the table.
The others were out of breath.
The man and the woman reached across the table.
They were afraid, they smiled.
The others poured themselves the last of the coffee
Burning their tongues.
The man and the woman looked at them.
They didn’t say anything.
The man and the woman moved closer to each other,
The round table between them.
The stove was still on and burned the empty pot.
She started to get up.
One of them shot her.
She leaned over the table like a schoolgirl doing her lessons.
She thought about being beside him, being asleep.
They took her long grey socks
Put them over the barrel of a rifle
And shot him.
He went back in his chair, holding himself.
She told him hers didn’t hurt much,
Like in the fall when everything you touch
Makes a spark.
He thought about her getting up in the dark
Wrapping a quilt around herself
And standing in the doorway.
She asked the men if they shot them again
Not to hurt their faces.
One of them lit him one of his cigarettes.
He thought what it would be like
Being children together.
He was dead before he finished it.
She asked them could she take it out of his mouth.
So it wouldn’t burn his lips.
She reached over and touched his hair.
She thought about him walking through the dark singing.
She died on the table like that,
Smoke coming out of his mouth.
Memory Is Like A Shotgun Kicking You Near the Heart
BY FRANK STANFORD
I get up, walk around the weeds
By the side of the road with a flashlight
Looking for the run-over cat
I hear crying.
I think of the hair growing on the dead,
Any motion without sound,
The stars, the seed ticks
Already past my knees,
the moon beating its dark bush.
I take the deer path
Down the side of the hill to the lake,
Wade the cold water.
My light draws the minnows,
Shines through them, goes dead.
Following the shore
I choose the long way home
Past the government camping grounds,
And see where the weeds have been
Beaten down,
Hear the generator on the Winnebago purring.
The children of the tourists
Are under the wheels
Like a covered wagon.
They scratch in their sleep
Until they bleed.
When I get home
I drink a glass of milk in the dark.
She gets up, comes into the room naked
With her split pillow,
Says what’s wrong,
I say an eyelash.
Play in Which Darkness Falls
BY FRANK STANFORD
Raymond Roussel
Two girls runaway from the Home.They have a revolver
in their possession.The Sisters Of Our Lady have given up
looking for them, returning in the night with soft candles.
The sleek clouds have thrown their riders, and the bees
are returning to the honey, the clover at the edge of the 
cliff black as eyelids, damp as blue mussels flexing at the moon.
The girls look in the stolen mirror, then throw their shoes
in the sea.They take off one another’s dress, posing
on the rocks that jut out over the faded water of the last days.
The clover beat down from their splendid feet, the clover
quiet like a vault.Nearby in a ship named for early death,
I drink wine like a city.Anchored far off the continent of love. 
Strange, but bees do not die in their own honey, and how the dead
are toted off, how the sweet moons are deposited in the catacombs.
The clover at the edge of the sea like a chemise, place
where animals have lain.They help one another with their hair,
their dresses blowing back to land.They look over the
cliff, spit on the beach.Birds I have never seen going by.
Poem
BY FRANK STANFORD
When the rain hits the snake in the head,
he closes his eyes and wishes he were
asleep in a tire on the side of the road,
so young boys could roll him over, forever.
Riverlight
BY FRANK STANFORD
My father and I lie down together.
He is dead.
We look up at the stars, the steady sound
Of the wind turning the night like a ceiling fan.
This is our home.
I remember the work in him
Like bitterness in persimmons before a frost.
And I imagine the way he had fear,
The ground turning dark in a rain.
Now he gets up.
And I dream he looks down in my eyes
And watches me die.
The Light the Dead See
BY FRANK STANFORD
There are many people who come back
After the doctor has smoothed the sheet
Around their body
And left the room to make his call.
They die but they live.
They are called the dead who lived through their deaths,
And among my people
They are considered wise and honest.
They float out of their bodies
And light on the ceiling like a moth,
Watching the efforts of everyone around them.
The voices and the images of the living
Fade away.
A roar sucks them under
The wheels of a darkness without pain.
Off in the distance
There is someone
Like a signalman swinging a lantern.
The light grows, a white flower.
It becomes very intense, like music.
They see the faces of those they loved,
The truly dead who speak kindly.
They see their father sitting in a field.
The harvest is over and his cane chair is mended.
There is a towel around his neck,
The odor of bay rum.
Then they see their mother
Standing behind him with a pair of shears.
The wind is blowing.
She is cutting his hair.
The dead have told these stories
To the living.

You
BY FRANK STANFORD
Sometimes in our sleep we touch
The body of another woman
And we wake up
And we know the first nights
With summer visitors
In the three storied house of our childhood.
Whatever we remember,
The darkest hair being brushed
In front of the darkest mirror
In the darkest room. 
Sonnet in the Shape of a Potted Christmas Tree
BY GEORGE STARBUCK
*
O
fury-
bedecked!
O glitter-torn!
Let the wild wind erect
bonbonbonanzas; junipers affect
frostyfreeze turbans; iciclestuff adorn
all cuckolded creation in a madcap crown of horn!
It’s a new day; no scapegrace of a sect
tidying up the ashtrays playing Daughter-in-Law Elect;
bells! bibelots! popsicle cigars! shatter the glassware! a son born
now
now
while ox and ass and infant lie
together as poor creatures will
and tears of her exertion still
cling in the spent girl’s eye
and a great firework in the sky
drifts to the western hill.
TENDER BUTTONS [OBJECTS]
BY GERTRUDE STEIN

A CARAFE, THAT IS A BLIND GLASS. 
A kind in glass and a cousin, a spectacle and nothing strange a single hurt color and an arrangement in a system to pointing. All this and not ordinary, not unordered in not resembling. The difference is spreading. 
GLAZED GLITTER. 
Nickel, what is nickel, it is originally rid of a cover. 
The change in that is that red weakens an hour. The change has come. There is no search. But there is, there is that hope and that interpretation and sometime, surely any is unwelcome, sometime there is breath and there will be a sinecure and charming very charming is that clean and cleansing. Certainly glittering is handsome and convincing. 
There is no gratitude in mercy and in medicine. There can be breakages in Japanese. That is no programme. That is no color chosen. It was chosen yesterday, that showed spitting and perhaps washing and polishing. It certainly showed no obligation and perhaps if borrowing is not natural there is some use in giving. 
A SUBSTANCE IN A CUSHION. 
The change of color is likely and a difference a very little difference is prepared. Sugar is not a vegetable. 
Callous is something that hardening leaves behind what will be soft if there is a genuine interest in there being present as many girls as men. Does this change. It shows that dirt is clean when there is a volume. 
A cushion has that cover. Supposing you do not like to change, supposing it is very clean that there is no change in appearance, supposing that there is regularity and a costume is that any the worse than an oyster and an exchange. Come to season that is there any extreme use in feather and cotton. Is there not much more joy in a table and more chairs and very likely roundness and a place to put them. 
A circle of fine card board and a chance to see a tassel. 
What is the use of a violent kind of delightfulness if there is no pleasure in not getting tired of it. The question does not come before there is a quotation. In any kind of place there is a top to covering and it is a pleasure at any rate there is some venturing in refusing to believe nonsense. It shows what use there is in a whole piece if one uses it and it is extreme and very likely the little things could be dearer but in any case there is a bargain and if there is the best thing to do is to take it away and wear it and then be reckless be reckless and resolved on returning gratitude. 
Light blue and the same red with purple makes a change. It shows that there is no mistake. Any pink shows that and very likely it is reasonable. Very likely there should not be a finer fancy present. Some increase means a calamity and this is the best preparation for three and more being together. A little calm is so ordinary and in any case there is sweetness and some of that. 
A seal and matches and a swan and ivy and a suit. 
A closet, a closet does not connect under the bed. The band if it is white and black, the band has a green string. A sight a whole sight and a little groan grinding makes a trimming such a sweet singing trimming and a red thing not a round thing but a white thing, a red thing and a white thing. 
The disgrace is not in carelessness nor even in sewing it comes out out of the way. 
What is the sash like. The sash is not like anything mustard it is not like a same thing that has stripes, it is not even more hurt than that, it has a little top. 
A BOX. 
Out of kindness comes redness and out of rudeness comes rapid same question, out of an eye comes research, out of selection comes painful cattle. So then the order is that a white way of being round is something suggesting a pin and is it disappointing, it is not, it is so rudimentary to be analysed and see a fine substance strangely, it is so earnest to have a green point not to red but to point again. 
A PIECE OF COFFEE. 
More of double. 
A place in no new table. 
A single image is not splendor. Dirty is yellow. A sign of more in not mentioned. A piece of coffee is not a detainer. The resemblance to yellow is dirtier and distincter. The clean mixture is whiter and not coal color, never more coal color than altogether. 
The sight of a reason, the same sight slighter, the sight of a simpler negative answer, the same sore sounder, the intention to wishing, the same splendor, the same furniture. 
The time to show a message is when too late and later there is no hanging in a blight. 
A not torn rose-wood color. If it is not dangerous then a pleasure and more than any other if it is cheap is not cheaper. The amusing side is that the sooner there are no fewer the more certain is the necessity dwindled. Supposing that the case contained rose-wood and a color. Supposing that there was no reason for a distress and more likely for a number, supposing that there was no astonishment, is it not necessary to mingle astonishment. 
The settling of stationing cleaning is one way not to shatter scatter and scattering. The one way to use custom is to use soap and silk for cleaning. The one way to see cotton is to have a design concentrating the illusion and the illustration. The perfect way is to accustom the thing to have a lining and the shape of a ribbon and to be solid, quite solid in standing and to use heaviness in morning. It is light enough in that. It has that shape nicely. Very nicely may not be exaggerating. Very strongly may be sincerely fainting. May be strangely flattering. May not be strange in everything. May not be strange to. 
DIRT AND NOT COPPER. 
Dirt and not copper makes a color darker. It makes the shape so heavy and makes no melody harder. 
It makes mercy and relaxation and even a strength to spread a table fuller. There are more places not empty. They see cover. 
NOTHING ELEGANT. 
A charm a single charm is doubtful. If the red is rose and there is a gate surrounding it, if inside is let in and there places change then certainly something is upright. It is earnest. 
MILDRED'S UMBRELLA. 
A cause and no curve, a cause and loud enough, a cause and extra a loud clash and an extra wagon, a sign of extra, a sac a small sac and an established color and cunning, a slender grey and no ribbon, this means a loss a great loss a restitution. 
A METHOD OF A CLOAK. 
A single climb to a line, a straight exchange to a cane, a desperate adventure and courage and a clock, all this which is a system, which has feeling, which has resignation and success, all makes an attractive black silver. 
A RED STAMP. 
If lilies are lily white if they exhaust noise and distance and even dust, if they dusty will dirt a surface that has no extreme grace, if they do this and it is not necessary it is not at all necessary if they do this they need a catalogue. 
A BOX. 
A large box is handily made of what is necessary to replace any substance. Suppose an example is necessary, the plainer it is made the more reason there is for some outward recognition that there is a result. 
A box is made sometimes and them to see to see to it neatly and to have the holes stopped up makes it necessary to use paper. 
A custom which is necessary when a box is used and taken is that a large part of the time there are three which have different connections. The one is on the table. The two are on the table. The three are on the table. The one, one is the same length as is shown by the cover being longer. The other is different there is more cover that shows it. The other is different and that makes the corners have the same shade the eight are in singular arrangement to make four necessary. 
Lax, to have corners, to be lighter than some weight, to indicate a wedding journey, to last brown and not curious, to be wealthy, cigarettes are established by length and by doubling. 
Left open, to be left pounded, to be left closed, to be circulating in summer and winter, and sick color that is grey that is not dusty and red shows, to be sure cigarettes do measure an empty length sooner than a choice in color. 
Winged, to be winged means that white is yellow and pieces pieces that are brown are dust color if dust is washed off, then it is choice that is to say it is fitting cigarettes sooner than paper. 
An increase why is an increase idle, why is silver cloister, why is the spark brighter, if it is brighter is there any result, hardly more than ever. 
A PLATE. 
An occasion for a plate, an occasional resource is in buying and how soon does washing enable a selection of the same thing neater. If the party is small a clever song is in order. 
Plates and a dinner set of colored china. Pack together a string and enough with it to protect the centre, cause a considerable haste and gather more as it is cooling, collect more trembling and not any even trembling, cause a whole thing to be a church. 
A sad size a size that is not sad is blue as every bit of blue is precocious. A kind of green a game in green and nothing flat nothing quite flat and more round, nothing a particular color strangely, nothing breaking the losing of no little piece. 
A splendid address a really splendid address is not shown by giving a flower freely, it is not shown by a mark or by wetting. 
Cut cut in white, cut in white so lately. Cut more than any other and show it. Show it in the stem and in starting and in evening coming complication. 
A lamp is not the only sign of glass. The lamp and the cake are not the only sign of stone. The lamp and the cake and the cover are not the only necessity altogether. 
A plan a hearty plan, a compressed disease and no coffee, not even a card or a change to incline each way, a plan that has that excess and that break is the one that shows filling. 
A SELTZER BOTTLE. 
Any neglect of many particles to a cracking, any neglect of this makes around it what is lead in color and certainly discolor in silver. The use of this is manifold. Supposing a certain time selected is assured, suppose it is even necessary, suppose no other extract is permitted and no more handling is needed, suppose the rest of the message is mixed with a very long slender needle and even if it could be any black border, supposing all this altogether made a dress and suppose it was actual, suppose the mean way to state it was occasional, if you suppose this in August and even more melodiously, if you suppose this even in the necessary incident of there certainly being no middle in summer and winter, suppose this and an elegant settlement a very elegant settlement is more than of consequence, it is not final and sufficient and substituted. This which was so kindly a present was constant. 
A LONG DRESS. 
What is the current that makes machinery, that makes it crackle, what is the current that presents a long line and a necessary waist. What is this current. 
What is the wind, what is it. 
Where is the serene length, it is there and a dark place is not a dark place, only a white and red are black, only a yellow and green are blue, a pink is scarlet, a bow is every color. A line distinguishes it. A line just distinguishes it. 
A RED HAT. 
A dark grey, a very dark grey, a quite dark grey is monstrous ordinarily, it is so monstrous because there is no red in it. If red is in everything it is not necessary. Is that not an argument for any use of it and even so is there any place that is better, is there any place that has so much stretched out. 
A BLUE COAT. 
A blue coat is guided guided away, guided and guided away, that is the particular color that is used for that length and not any width not even more than a shadow. 
A PIANO. 
If the speed is open, if the color is careless, if the selection of a strong scent is not awkward, if the button holder is held by all the waving color and there is no color, not any color. If there is no dirt in a pin and there can be none scarcely, if there is not then the place is the same as up standing. 
This is no dark custom and it even is not acted in any such a way that a restraint is not spread. That is spread, it shuts and it lifts and awkwardly not awkwardly the centre is in standing. 
A CHAIR. 
A widow in a wise veil and more garments shows that shadows are even. It addresses no more, it shadows the stage and learning. A regular arrangement, the severest and the most preserved is that which has the arrangement not more than always authorised. 
A suitable establishment, well housed, practical, patient and staring, a suitable bedding, very suitable and not more particularly than complaining, anything suitable is so necessary. 
A fact is that when the direction is just like that, no more, longer, sudden and at the same time not any sofa, the main action is that without a blaming there is no custody. 
Practice measurement, practice the sign that means that really means a necessary betrayal, in showing that there is wearing. 
Hope, what is a spectacle, a spectacle is the resemblance between the circular side place and nothing else, nothing else. 
To choose it is ended, it is actual and more than that it has it certainly has the same treat, and a seat all that is practiced and more easily much more easily ordinarily. 
Pick a barn, a whole barn, and bend more slender accents than have ever been necessary, shine in the darkness necessarily. 
Actually not aching, actually not aching, a stubborn bloom is so artificial and even more than that, it is a spectacle, it is a binding accident, it is animosity and accentuation. 
If the chance to dirty diminishing is necessary, if it is why is there no complexion, why is there no rubbing, why is there no special protection. 
A FRIGHTFUL RELEASE. 
A bag which was left and not only taken but turned away was not found. The place was shown to be very like the last time. A piece was not exchanged, not a bit of it, a piece was left over. The rest was mismanaged. 
A PURSE. 
A purse was not green, it was not straw color, it was hardly seen and it had a use a long use and the chain, the chain was never missing, it was not misplaced, it showed that it was open, that is all that it showed. 
A MOUNTED UMBRELLA. 
What was the use of not leaving it there where it would hang what was the use if there was no chance of ever seeing it come there and show that it was handsome and right in the way it showed it. The lesson is to learn that it does show it, that it shows it and that nothing, that there is nothing, that there is no more to do about it and just so much more is there plenty of reason for making an exchange. 
A CLOTH. 
Enough cloth is plenty and more, more is almost enough for that and besides if there is no more spreading is there plenty of room for it. Any occasion shows the best way. 
MORE. 
An elegant use of foliage and grace and a little piece of white cloth and oil. 
Wondering so winningly in several kinds of oceans is the reason that makes red so regular and enthusiastic. The reason that there is more snips are the same shining very colored rid of no round color. 
A NEW CUP AND SAUCER. 
Enthusiastically hurting a clouded yellow bud and saucer, enthusiastically so is the bite in the ribbon. 
OBJECTS. 
Within, within the cut and slender joint alone, with sudden equals and no more than three, two in the centre make two one side. 
If the elbow is long and it is filled so then the best example is all together. 
The kind of show is made by squeezing. 
EYE GLASSES. 
A color in shaving, a saloon is well placed in the centre of an alley. 
A CUTLET. 
A blind agitation is manly and uttermost. 
CARELESS WATER. 
No cup is broken in more places and mended, that is to say a plate is broken and mending does do that it shows that culture is Japanese. It shows the whole element of angels and orders. It does more to choosing and it does more to that ministering counting. It does, it does change in more water. 
Supposing a single piece is a hair supposing more of them are orderly, does that show that strength, does that show that joint, does that show that balloon famously. Does it. 
A PAPER. 
A courteous occasion makes a paper show no such occasion and this makes readiness and eyesight and likeness and a stool. 
A DRAWING. 
The meaning of this is entirely and best to say the mark, best to say it best to show sudden places, best to make bitter, best to make the length tall and nothing broader, anything between the half. 
WATER RAINING. 
Water astonishing and difficult altogether makes a meadow and a stroke. 
COLD CLIMATE. 
A season in yellow sold extra strings makes lying places. 
MALACHITE. 
The sudden spoon is the same in no size. The sudden spoon is the wound in the decision. 
AN UMBRELLA. 
Coloring high means that the strange reason is in front not more in front behind. Not more in front in peace of the dot. 
A PETTICOAT. 
A light white, a disgrace, an ink spot, a rosy charm. 
A WAIST. 
A star glide, a single frantic sullenness, a single financial grass greediness. 
Object that is in wood. Hold the pine, hold the dark, hold in the rush, make the bottom. 
A piece of crystal. A change, in a change that is remarkable there is no reason to say that there was a time. 
A woolen object gilded. A country climb is the best disgrace, a couple of practices any of them in order is so left. 
A TIME TO EAT. 
A pleasant simple habitual and tyrannical and authorised and educated and resumed and articulate separation. This is not tardy. 
A LITTLE BIT OF A TUMBLER. 
A shining indication of yellow consists in there having been more of the same color than could have been expected when all four were bought. This was the hope which made the six and seven have no use for any more places and this necessarily spread into nothing. Spread into nothing. 
A FIRE. 
What was the use of a whole time to send and not send if there was to be the kind of thing that made that come in. A letter was nicely sent. 
A HANDKERCHIEF. 
A winning of all the blessings, a sample not a sample because there is no worry. 
RED ROSES. 
A cool red rose and a pink cut pink, a collapse and a sold hole, a little less hot. 
IN BETWEEN. 
In between a place and candy is a narrow foot-path that shows more mounting than anything, so much really that a calling meaning a bolster measured a whole thing with that. A virgin a whole virgin is judged made and so between curves and outlines and real seasons and more out glasses and a perfectly unprecedented arrangement between old ladies and mild colds there is no satin wood shining. 
COLORED HATS. 
Colored hats are necessary to show that curls are worn by an addition of blank spaces, this makes the difference between single lines and broad stomachs, the least thing is lightening, the least thing means a little flower and a big delay a big delay that makes more nurses than little women really little women. So clean is a light that nearly all of it shows pearls and little ways. A large hat is tall and me and all custard whole. 
A FEATHER. 
A feather is trimmed, it is trimmed by the light and the bug and the post, it is trimmed by little leaning and by all sorts of mounted reserves and loud volumes. It is surely cohesive. 
A BROWN. 
A brown which is not liquid not more so is relaxed and yet there is a change, a news is pressing. 
A LITTLE CALLED PAULINE. 
A little called anything shows shudders. 
Come and say what prints all day. A whole few watermelon. There is no pope. 
No cut in pennies and little dressing and choose wide soles and little spats really little spices. 
A little lace makes boils. This is not true. 
Gracious of gracious and a stamp a blue green white bow a blue green lean, lean on the top. 
If it is absurd then it is leadish and nearly set in where there is a tight head. 
A peaceful life to arise her, noon and moon and moon. A letter a cold sleeve a blanket a shaving house and nearly the best and regular window. 
Nearer in fairy sea, nearer and farther, show white has lime in sight, show a stitch of ten. Count, count more so that thicker and thicker is leaning. 
I hope she has her cow. Bidding a wedding, widening received treading, little leading mention nothing. 
Cough out cough out in the leather and really feather it is not for. 
Please could, please could, jam it not plus more sit in when. 
A SOUND. 
Elephant beaten with candy and little pops and chews all bolts and reckless reckless rats, this is this. 
A TABLE. 
A table means does it not my dear it means a whole steadiness. Is it likely that a change. 
A table means more than a glass even a looking glass is tall. A table means necessary places and a revision a revision of a little thing it means it does mean that there has been a stand, a stand where it did shake. 
SHOES. 
To be a wall with a damper a stream of pounding way and nearly enough choice makes a steady midnight. It is pus. 
A shallow hole rose on red, a shallow hole in and in this makes ale less. It shows shine. 
A DOG. 
A little monkey goes like a donkey that means to say that means to say that more sighs last goes. Leave with it. A little monkey goes like a donkey. 
A WHITE HUNTER. 
A white hunter is nearly crazy. 
A LEAVE. 
In the middle of a tiny spot and nearly bare there is a nice thing to say that wrist is leading. Wrist is leading. 
SUPPOSE AN EYES. 
Suppose it is within a gate which open is open at the hour of closing summer that is to say it is so. 
All the seats are needing blackening. A white dress is in sign. A soldier a real soldier has a worn lace a worn lace of different sizes that is to say if he can read, if he can read he is a size to show shutting up twenty-four. 
Go red go red, laugh white. 
Suppose a collapse in rubbed purr, in rubbed purr get. 
Little sales ladies little sales ladies little saddles of mutton. 
Little sales of leather and such beautiful beautiful, beautiful beautiful. 
A SHAWL. 
A shawl is a hat and hurt and a red balloon and an under coat and a sizer a sizer of talks. 
A shawl is a wedding, a piece of wax a little build. A shawl. 
Pick a ticket, pick it in strange steps and with hollows. There is hollow hollow belt, a belt is a shawl. 
A plate that has a little bobble, all of them, any so. 
Please a round it is ticket. 
It was a mistake to state that a laugh and a lip and a laid climb and a depot and a cultivator and little choosing is a point it. 
BOOK. 
Book was there, it was there. Book was there. Stop it, stop it, it was a cleaner, a wet cleaner and it was not where it was wet, it was not high, it was directly placed back, not back again, back it was returned, it was needless, it put a bank, a bank when, a bank care. 
Suppose a man a realistic expression of resolute reliability suggests pleasing itself white all white and no head does that mean soap. It does not so. It means kind wavers and little chance to beside beside rest. A plain. 
Suppose ear rings, that is one way to breed, breed that. Oh chance to say, oh nice old pole. Next best and nearest a pillar. Chest not valuable, be papered. 
Cover up cover up the two with a little piece of string and hope rose and green, green. 
Please a plate, put a match to the seam and really then really then, really then it is a remark that joins many many lead games. It is a sister and sister and a flower and a flower and a dog and a colored sky a sky colored grey and nearly that nearly that let. 
PEELED PENCIL, CHOKE. 
Rub her coke. 
IT WAS BLACK, BLACK TOOK. 
Black ink best wheel bale brown. 
Excellent not a hull house, not a pea soup, no bill no care, no precise no past pearl pearl goat. 
THIS IS THIS DRESS, AIDER. 
Aider, why aider why whow, whow stop touch, aider whow, aider stop the muncher, muncher munchers. 
A jack in kill her, a jack in, makes a meadowed king, makes a to let.
A Postcard From The Volcano
BY WALLACE STEVENS
Children picking up our bones 
Will never know that these were once 
As quick as foxes on the hill; 
And that in autumn, when the grapes 
Made sharp air sharper by their smell 
These had a being, breathing frost; 
And least will guess that with our bones 
We left much more, left what still is 
The look of things, left what we felt 
At what we saw. The spring clouds blow 
Above the shuttered mansion house, 
Beyond our gate and the windy sky 
Cries out a literate despair. 
We knew for long the mansion's look 
And what we said of it became 
A part of what it is ... Children, 
Still weaving budded aureoles, 
Will speak our speech and never know, 
Will say of the mansion that it seems 
As if he that lived there left behind 
A spirit storming in blank walls, 
A dirty house in a gutted world, 
A tatter of shadows peaked to white, 
Smeared with the gold of the opulent sun.

A Rabbit As King Of The Ghosts
BY WALLACE STEVENS
The difficulty to think at the end of day,
When the shapeless shadow covers the sun
And nothing is left except light on your fur?
There was the cat slopping its milk all day,
Fat cat, red tongue, green mind, white milk
And August the most peaceful month.
To be, in the grass, in the peacefullest time,
Without that monument of cat, 
The cat forgotten on the moon;
And to feel that the light is a rabbit-light
In which everything is meant for you
And nothing need be explained;
Then there is nothing to think of. It comes of itself;
And east rushes west and west rushes down,
No matter. The grass is full
And full of yourself. The trees around are for you,
The whole of the wideness of night is for you,
A self that touches all edges,
You become a self that fills the four corners of night.
The red cat hides away in the fur-light
And there you are humped high, humped up,
You are humped higher and higher, black as stone?
You sit with your head like a carving in space
And the little green cat is a bug in the grass.
ANECDOTE OF THE JAR
I placed a jar in Tennessee, And round it was, upon a hill. It made the slovenly wilderness Surround that hill.  The wilderness rose up to it, And sprawled around, no longer wild. The jar was round upon the ground And tall and of a port in air.  It took dominion everywhere. The jar was gray and bare. It did not give of bird or bush, Like nothing else in Tennessee.

The Auroras of Autumn

I
This is where the serpent lives, the bodiless.
His head is air. Beneath his tip at night
Eyes open and fix on us in every sky.
Or is this another wriggling out of the egg,
Another image at the end of the cave,
Another bodiless for the body's slough?
This is where the serpent lives. This is his nest,
These fields, these hills, these tinted distances,
And the pines above and along and beside the sea.
This is form gulping after formlessness,
Skin flashing to wished-for disappearances
And the serpent body flashing without the skin.
This is the height emerging and its base
These lights may finally attain a pole
In the midmost midnight and find the serpent there,
In another nest, the master of the maze
Of body and air and forms and images,
Relentlessly in possession of happiness.
This is his poison: that we should disbelieve
Even that. His meditations in the ferns,
When he moved so slightly to make sure of sun,
Made us no less as sure. We saw in his head,
Black beaded on the rock, the flecked animal,
The moving grass, the Indian in his glade.
II
Farewell to an idea . . . A cabin stands,
Deserted, on a beach. It is white,
As by a custom or according to
An ancestral theme or as a consequence
Of an infinite course. The flowers against the wall
Are white, a little dried, a kind of mark
Reminding, trying to remind, of a white
That was different, something else, last year
Or before, not the white of an aging afternoon,
Whether fresher or duller, whether of winter cloud
Or of winter sky, from horizon to horizon.
The wind is blowing the sand across the floor.
Here, being visible is being white,
Is being of the solid of white, the accomplishment
Of an extremist in an exercise . . .
The season changes. A cold wind chills the beach.
The long lines of it grow longer, emptier,
A darkness gathers though it does not fall
And the whiteness grows less vivid on the wall.
The man who is walking turns blankly on the sand.
He observes how the north is always enlarging the change,
With its frigid brilliances, its blue-red sweeps
And gusts of great enkindlings, its polar green,
The color of ice and fire and solitude.
III
Farewell to an idea . . . The mother's face,
The purpose of the poem, fills the room.
They are together, here, and it is warm,
With none of the prescience of oncoming dreams.
It is evening. The house is evening, half dissolved.
Only the half they can never possess remains,
Still-starred. It is the mother they possess,
Who gives transparence to their present peace.
She makes that gentler that can gentle be.
And yet she too is dissolved, she is destroyed.
She gives transparence. But she has grown old.
The necklace is a carving not a kiss.
The soft hands are a motion not a touch.
The house will crumble and the books will burn.
They are at ease in a shelter of the mind
And the house is of the mind and they and time,
Together, all together. Boreal night
Will look like frost as it approaches them
And to the mother as she falls asleep
And as they say good-night, good-night. Upstairs
The windows will be lighted, not the rooms.
A wind will spread its windy grandeurs round
And knock like a rifle-butt against the door.
The wind will command them with invincible sound.
IV
Farewell to an idea . . . The cancellings,
The negations are never final. The father sits
In space, wherever he sits, of bleak regard,
As one that is strong in the bushes of his eyes.
He says no to no and yes to yes. He says yes
To no; and in saying yes he says farewell.
He measures the velocities of change.
He leaps from heaven to heaven more rapidly
Than bad angels leap from heaven to hell in flames.
But now he sits in quiet and green-a-day.
He assumes the great speeds of space and flutters them
From cloud to cloudless, cloudless to keen clear
In flights of eye and ear, the highest eye
And the lowest ear, the deep ear that discerns,
At evening, things that attend it until it hears
The supernatural preludes of its own,
At the moment when the angelic eye defines
Its actors approaching, in company, in their masks.
Master O master seated by the fire
And yet in space and motionless and yet
Of motion the ever-brightening origin,
Profound, and yet the king and yet the crown,
Look at this present throne. What company,
In masks, can choir it with the naked wind?
V
The mother invites humanity to her house
And table. The father fetches tellers of tales
And musicians who mute much, muse much, on the tales.
The father fetches negresses to dance,
Among the children, like curious ripenesses
Of pattern in the dance's ripening.
For these the musicians make insidious tones,
Clawing the sing-song of their instruments.
The children laugh and jangle a tinny time.
The father fetches pageants out of air,
Scenes of the theatre, vistas and blocks of woods
And curtains like a naive pretence of sleep.
Among these the musicians strike the instinctive poem.
The father fetches his unherded herds,
Of barbarous tongue, slavered and panting halves
Of breath, obedient to his trumpet's touch.
This then is Chatillon or as you please.
We stand in the tumult of a festival.
What festival? This loud, disordered mooch?
These hospitaliers? These brute-like guests?
These musicians dubbing at a tragedy,
A-dub, a-dub, which is made up of this:
That there are no lines to speak? There is no play.
Or, the persons act one merely by being here.
VI
It is a theatre floating through the clouds,
Itself a cloud, although of misted rock
And mountains running like water, wave on wave,
Through waves of light. It is of cloud transformed
To cloud transformed again, idly, the way
A season changes color to no end,
Except the lavishing of itself in change,
As light changes yellow into gold and gold
To its opal elements and fire's delight,
Splashed wide-wise because it likes magnificence
And the solemn pleasures of magnificent space
The cloud drifts idly through half-thought-of forms.
The theatre is filled with flying birds,
Wild wedges, as of a volcano's smoke, palm-eyed
And vanishing, a web in a corridor
Or massive portico. A capitol,
It may be, is emerging or has just
Collapsed. The denouement has to be postponed . . .
This is nothing until in a single man contained,
Nothing until this named thing nameless is
And is destroyed. He opens the door of his house
On flames. The scholar of one candle sees
An Arctic effulgence flaring on the frame
Of everything he is. And he feels afraid.
VII
Is there an imagination that sits enthroned
As grim as it is benevolent, the just
And the unjust, which in the midst of summer stops
To imagine winter? When the leaves are dead,
Does it take its place in the north and enfold itself,
Goat-leaper, crystalled and luminous, sitting
In highest night? And do these heavens adorn
And proclaim it, the white creator of black, jetted
By extinguishings, even of planets as may be,
Even of earth, even of sight, in snow,
Except as needed by way of majesty,
In the sky, as crown and diamond cabala?
It leaps through us, through all our heavens leaps,
Extinguishing our planets, one by one,
Leaving, of where we were and looked, of where
We knew each other and of each other thought,
A shivering residue, chilled and foregone,
Except for that crown and mystical cabala.
But it dare not leap by chance in its own dark.
It must change from destiny to slight caprice.
And thus its jetted tragedy, its stele
And shape and mournful making move to find
What must unmake it and, at last, what can,
Say, a flippant communication under the moon.
VIII
There may be always a time of innocence.
There is never a place. Or if there is no time,
If it is not a thing of time, nor of place,
Existing in the idea of it, alone,
In the sense against calamity, it is not
Less real. For the oldest and coldest philosopher,
There is or may be a time of innocence
As pure principle. Its nature is its end,
That it should be, and yet not be, a thing
That pinches the pity of the pitiful man,
Like a book at evening beautiful but untrue,
Like a book on rising beautiful and true.

It is like a thing of ether that exists
Almost as predicate. But it exists,
It exists, it is visible, it is, it is.
So, then, these lights are not a spell of light,
A saying out of a cloud, but innocence.
An innocence of the earth and no false sign
Or symbol of malice. That we partake thereof,
Lie down like children in this holiness,
As if, awake, we lay in the quiet of sleep,
As if the innocent mother sang in the dark
Of the room and on an accordion, half-heard,
Created the time and place in which we breathed . . .
IX
And of each other thought—in the idiom
Of the work, in the idiom of an innocent earth,
Not of the enigma of the guilty dream.
We were as Danes in Denmark all day long
And knew each other well, hale-hearted landsmen,
For whom the outlandish was another day
Of the week, queerer than Sunday. We thought alike
And that made brothers of us in a home
In which we fed on being brothers, fed
And fattened as on a decorous honeycomb.
This drama that we live—We lay sticky with sleep.
This sense of the activity of fate—
The rendezvous, when she came alone,
By her coming became a freedom of the two,
An isolation which only the two could share.
Shall we be found hanging in the trees next spring?
Of what disaster in this the imminence:
Bare limbs, bare trees and a wind as sharp as salt?
The stars are putting on their glittering belts.
They throw around their shoulders cloaks that flash
Like a great shadow's last embellishment.
It may come tomorrow in the simplest word,
Almost as part of innocence, almost,
Almost as the tenderest and the truest part.
X
An unhappy people in a happy world—
Read, rabbi, the phases of this difference.
An unhappy people in an unhappy world—
Here are too many mirrors for misery.
A happy people in an unhappy world—
It cannot be. There's nothing there to roll
On the expressive tongue, the finding fang.
A happy people in a happy world—
Buffo! A ball, an opera, a bar.
Turn back to where we were when we began:
An unhappy people in a happy world.
Now, solemnize the secretive syllables.
Read to the congregation, for today
And for tomorrow, this extremity,
This contrivance of the spectre of the spheres,
Contriving balance to contrive a whole,
The vital, the never-failing genius,
Fulfilling his meditations, great and small.
In these unhappy he meditates a whole,
The full of fortune and the full of fate,
As if he lived all lives, that he might know,
In hall harridan, not hushful paradise,
To a haggling of wind and weather, by these lights
Like a blaze of summer straw, in winter's nick.
Bantams in Pine-Woods
BY WALLACE STEVENS
Chieftain Iffucan of Azcan in caftan Of tan with henna hackles, halt!  Damned universal cock, as if the sun Was blackamoor to bear your blazing tail.  Fat!Fat!Fat!Fat!I am the personal. Your world is you.I am my world.  You ten-foot poet among inchlings. Fat! Begone! An inchling bristles in these pines,  Bristles, and points their Appalachian tangs, And fears not portly Azcan nor his hoos.
Disillusionment of Ten o’Clock
BY WALLACE STEVENS
The houses are haunted By white night-gowns. None are green, Or purple with green rings, Or green with yellow rings, Or yellow with blue rings. None of them are strange, With socks of lace And beaded ceintures. People are not going To dream of baboons and periwinkles. Only, here and there, an old sailor, Drunk and asleep in his boots, Catches tigers In red weather.
Fabliau of Florida
BY WALLACE STEVENS
Barque of phosphor On the palmy beach,  Move outward into heaven, Into the alabasters And night blues.  Foam and cloud are one. Sultry moon-monsters Are dissolving.  Fill your black hull With white moonlight.  There will never be an end To this droning of the surf.
				 				 				 		 		 		 		 				 	 	 	
Reality is an Activity of the Most August Imagination

Last Friday, in the big light of last Friday night,
We drove home from Cornwall to Hartford, late.
It was not a night blown at a glassworks in Vienna
Or Venice, motionless, gathering time and dust.
There was a crush of strength in a grinding going round,
Under the front of the westward evening star,
The vigor of glory, a glittering in the veins,
As things emerged and moved and were dissolved,
Either in distance, change or nothingness,
The visible transformations of summer night,
An argentine abstraction approaching form
And suddenly denying itself away.
There was an insolid billowing of the solid.
Night’s moonlight lake was neither water nor air.
Sea Surface Full Of Clouds
BY WALLACE STEVENS
I
In that November off Tehuantepec,
The slopping of the sea grew still one night
And in the morning summer hued the deck
And made one think of rosy chocolate
And gilt umbrellas. Paradisal green
Gave suavity to the perplexed machine
Of ocean, which like limpid water lay.
Who, then, in that ambrosial latitude
Out of the light evolved the morning blooms,
Who, then, evolved the sea-blooms from the clouds
Diffusing balm in that Pacific calm?
C'etait mon enfant, mon bijou, mon ame.
The sea-clouds whitened far below the calm
And moved, as blooms move, in the swimming green
And in its watery radiance, while the hue
Of heaven in an antique reflection rolled
Round those flotillas. And sometimes the sea
Poured brilliant iris on the glistening blue.
II
In that November off Tehuantepec
The slopping of the sea grew still one night.
At breakfast jelly yellow streaked the deck
And made one think of chop-house chocolate
And sham umbrellas. And a sham-like green
Capped summer-seeming on the tense machine
Of ocean, which in sinister flatness lay.
Who, then, beheld the rising of the clouds
That strode submerged in that malevolent sheen,
Who saw the mortal massives of the blooms
Of water moving on the water-floor?
C'etait mon frere du ciel, ma vie, mon or.
The gongs rang loudly as the windy booms
Hoo-hooed it in the darkened ocean-blooms.
The gongs grew still. And then blue heaven spread
Its crystalline pendentives on the sea
And the macabre of the water-glooms
In an enormous undulation fled.
III
In that November off Tehuantepec,
The slopping of the sea grew still one night
And a pale silver patterned on the deck
And made one think of porcelain chocolate
And pied umbrellas. An uncertain green,
Piano-polished, held the tranced machine
Of ocean, as a prelude holds and holds,
Who, seeing silver petals of white blooms
Unfolding in the water, feeling sure
Of the milk within the saltiest spurge, heard, then,
The sea unfolding in the sunken clouds?
Oh! C'etait mon extase et mon amour.
So deeply sunken were they that the shrouds,
The shrouding shadows, made the petals black
Until the rolling heaven made them blue,
A blue beyond the rainy hyacinth,
And smiting the crevasses of the leaves
Deluged the ocean with a sapphire blue.
IV
In that November off Tehuantepec
The night-long slopping of the sea grew still.
A mallow morning dozed upon the deck
And made one think of musky chocolate
And frail umbrellas. A too-fluent green
Suggested malice in the dry machine
Of ocean, pondering dank stratagem.
Who then beheld the figures of the clouds
Like blooms secluded in the thick marine?
Like blooms? Like damasks that were shaken off
From the loosed girdles in the spangling must.
C'etait ma foi, la nonchalance divine.
The nakedness would rise and suddenly turn
Salt masks of beard and mouths of bellowing,
Would--But more suddenly the heaven rolled
Its bluest sea-clouds in the thinking green,
And the nakedness became the broadest blooms,
Mile-mallows that a mallow sun cajoled.
V
In that November off Tehuantepec
Night stilled the slopping of the sea.
The day came, bowing and voluble, upon the deck,
Good clown... One thought of Chinese chocolate
And large umbrellas. And a motley green
Followed the drift of the obese machine
Of ocean, perfected in indolence.
What pistache one, ingenious and droll,
Beheld the sovereign clouds as jugglery
And the sea as turquoise-turbaned Sambo, neat
At tossing saucers--cloudy-conjuring sea?
C'etait mon esprit batard, l'ignominie.
The sovereign clouds came clustering. The conch
Of loyal conjuration trumped. The wind
Of green blooms turning crisped the motley hue
To clearing opalescence. Then the sea
And heaven rolled as one and from the two
Came fresh transfigurings of freshest blue.
Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird
BY WALLACE STEVENS
I
Among twenty snowy mountains, 
The only moving thing 
Was the eye of the blackbird. 
II
I was of three minds, 
Like a tree 
In which there are three blackbirds. 
III
The blackbird whirled in the autumn winds. 
It was a small part of the pantomime. 
IV
A man and a woman 
Are one. 
A man and a woman and a blackbird 
Are one. 
V
I do not know which to prefer, 
The beauty of inflections 
Or the beauty of innuendoes, 
The blackbird whistling 
Or just after. 
VI
Icicles filled the long window 
With barbaric glass. 
The shadow of the blackbird 
Crossed it, to and fro. 
The mood 
Traced in the shadow 
An indecipherable cause. 
VII
O thin men of Haddam, 
Why do you imagine golden birds? 
Do you not see how the blackbird 
Walks around the feet 
Of the women about you? 
VIII
I know noble accents 
And lucid, inescapable rhythms; 
But I know, too, 
That the blackbird is involved 
In what I know. 
IX
When the blackbird flew out of sight, 
It marked the edge 
Of one of many circles. 
X
At the sight of blackbirds 
Flying in a green light, 
Even the bawds of euphony 
Would cry out sharply. 
XI
He rode over Connecticut 
In a glass coach. 
Once, a fear pierced him, 
In that he mistook 
The shadow of his equipage 
For blackbirds. 
XII
The river is moving. 
The blackbird must be flying. 
XIII
It was evening all afternoon. 
It was snowing 
And it was going to snow. 
The blackbird sat 
In the cedar-limbs.
A Language
BY SUSAN STEWART
I had heard the story before
about the two prisoners, alone
in the same cell, and one
gives the other lessons in a language.
Day after day, the pupil studies hard—
what else does he have to do?—and year
after year they practice,
waiting for the hour of release.
They tackle the nouns, the cases, and genders,
the rules for imperatives and conjugations,
but near the end of his sentence, the teacher
suddenly dies and only the pupil
goes back through the gate and into the open
world. He travels to the country of his new
language, fluent, and full of hope.
Yet when he arrives he finds
that the language he speaks is not
the language that is spoken. He has learned
a language one other person knew—its inventor,
his cell-mate and teacher.
And then the other
evening, I heard the story again.
This time the teacher was Gombrowicz, the pupil
was his wife. She had dreamed of learning
Polish and, hour after hour, for years
on end, Gombrowicz had been willing to teach
her a Polish that does not and never
did exist. The man who told
the story would like to marry his girlfriend.
They love to read in bed and between
them speak three languages.
They laughed—at the wife, at Gombrowicz, it wasn’t
clear, and I wasn’t sure that they
themselves knew what was funny.
I wondered why the man had told
the story, and thought of the tricks
enclosure can play. A nod, or silence,
another nod, consent—or not, as a cloud
drifts beyond the scene and the two
stand pointing in different directions
at the very same empty sky.
 Even so, there was something
else about the story, like teaching
a stunt to an animal—a four-legged
creature might prance on two legs
or a two-legged creature might
fall onto four.
 I remembered,
then, the miscarriage, and before that
the months of waiting: like baskets filled
with bright shapes, the imagination
run wild. And then what arrived:
the event that was nothing, a mistaken idea,
a scrap of charred cloth, the enormous
present folding over the future,
like a wave overtaking
a grain of sand.
 There was a myth
I once knew about twins who spoke
a private language, though one
spoke only the truth and the other
only lies. The savior gets mixed
up with the traitor, but the traitor
stays as true to himself as a god.
All night the rain falls here, falls there,
and the creatures dream, or drown, in the lair.
Answers 
by Mark Strand
Why did you travel?
Because the house was cold.
Why did you travel?
Because it is what I have always done between sunset and sunrise.
What did you wear?
I wore a blue suit, a white shirt, yellow tie, and yellow socks.
What did you wear?
I wore nothing. A scarf of pain kept me warm.
Who did you sleep with?
I slept with a different woman each night.
Who did you sleep with?
I slept alone. I have always slept alone.
Why did you lie to me?
I always thought I told the truth.
Why did you lie to me?
Because the truth lies like nothing else and I love the truth.
Why are you going?
Because nothing means much to me anymore.
Why are you going?
I don't know. I have never known.
How long shall I wait for you?
Do not wait for me. I am tired and I want to lie down.
Are you tired and do you want to lie down?
Yes, I am tired and I want to lie down.
Dark Harbor: Section VIII
 
 
If dawn breaks the heart, and the moon is a horror,
And the sun is nothing but the source of torpor,
Then of course I would have been silent all these years
And would not have chosen to go out tonight
In my new dark blue double-breasted suit
And to sit in a restaurant with a bowl
Of soup before me to celebrate how good life
Has been and how it has culminated in this instant.
The harmonies of wholesomeness have reached their apogee,
And I am aquiver with satisfaction, and you look
Good, too. I love your gold teeth and your dyed hair—
A little green, a little yellow—and your weight,
Which is finally up where we never thought
It would be. O my partner, my beautiful death,
My black paradise, my fusty intoxicant,
My symbolist muse, give me your breast
Or your hand or your tongue that sleeps all day
Behind its wall of reddish gums.
Lay yourself down on the restaurant floor
And recite all that’s been kept from my happiness.
Tell me I have not lived in vain, that the stars
Will not die, that things will stay as they are,
That what I have seen will last, that I was not born
Into change, that what I have said has not been said for me.
 
 
 
 
Mark Strand, Dark Harbor
 
The Dress
bY MARK STRAND
Lie down on the bright hill
with the moon's hand on your cheek,
your flesh deep in the white folds of your dress,
and you will not hear the passionate mole
extending the length of his darkness,
or the owl arranging all of the night,
which is his wisdom, or the poem
filling your pillow with its blue feathers.
But if you step out of your dress and move into the shade,
the mole will find you, so will the owl, and so will the poem,
and you will fall into another darkness, one you will find
yourself making and remaking until it is perfect.
THE DRESS
BY MARK STRAND
Lie down on the bright hill
with a moon's hand on your cheek,
your flesh deep in the white folds of your dress,
and you will not hear the passionate mole
extending the length of his darkness,
or the owl arranging all of the night,
which is his wisdom, or the poem
filling your pillow with its blue feathers.
But if you step out of your dress and move into the shade,
the mole will find you, so will the owl, and so will the poem,
and you will fall into another darkness, one you will find
yourself making and remaking until it is perfect.
POMELO WITH FALLEN ANGEL
BY MARCELA SULAK
Sealed inside this yellow peel, beneath the heavy
clouds they call white skin, the wings
are bound and pressed. So when she feels the knife
she quivers, when the skin’s peeled back, oh ecstasy.
Yet when the wings are lifted out, they’re different
than they were before; instead of wind they’re filled
with water, sweet and bitter, each feather fitted
to a narrow juice-filled sac.
………………………………………They look like
the hands of an unripe bride, pale from waiting
in the dark, long slender fingers reaching,
ever unmet. Even if they were to dry a little
in the sun, like cicadas falling out before
they grow into their souls, these wings
won’t rise—they left in such a rush.And she
has never learned wane and billow, what has tides,
and what a spoon is for.The wet pomelo feathers
wink like the seven hundred eyes of flies
and scatter like dew, and here she is,
opening her mouth.
Creation Myth
BY MATHIAS SVALINA
There was a big puddle of honey & millions of ants surrounded
the puddle & after the ants came the mice whose faces grew
sticky with honey, honey dripping from their long whiskers
& after the mice came the dogs who lapped at the honey until
their fur was matted & coated with honey & after the dogs
came the bears who spooned up big handfuls of honey with
their stony paws & after the bears came the humans but by
then all the honey had been eaten.
The humans stood in the spot where the honey puddle had been
& looked at each other & cried. One of them invented speaking
& they all complained about how much they were looking
forward to the honey & one of them invented the plough &
they built a farm on the spot where the honey puddle had been
& one of them invented guns & they went out into the world
& shot all the mice, dogs & bears.
The ants watched all of this from their anthill. They patted
their swollen bellies. They laughed at the humans & their
complicated objects. They passed bowls of honey around the
crowd & drank deep of the honey & passed out from too much
honey. So they did not see the humans inventing a new kind of
ant that feeds on honey-eating ants.
Once the ant-eating ants ate all the ants they turned on the
humans & ate all the humans. Once the ant-eating ants ate
all the humans they turned on each other & ate each other.
Eventually there was only one ant-eating ant alive, the only
creature alive in the world. He returned to the spot where the
honey puddle had been, sat down & watched the sunset over
the foothills & then ate his own thorax.
Strawberrying
BY MAY SWENSON
My hands are murder-red. Many a plump head
drops on the heap in the basket. Or, ripe
to bursting, they might be hearts, matching
the blackbirds’s wing-fleck. Gripped to a reed
he shrieks his ko-ka-ree in the next field.
He’s left his peck in some juicy cheeks, when
at first blush and mostly white, they showed
streaks of sweetness to the marauder.
We’re picking near the shore, the morning
sunny, a slight wind moving rough-veined leaves
our hands rumple among. Fingers find by feel
the ready fruit in clusters. Here and there,
their squishy wounds….Flesh was perfect
yesterday….June was for gorging….
sweet hearts young and firm before decay.
“Take only the biggest and not too ripe,”
a mother calls to her girl and boy, barefoot
in the furrows. “Don’t step on any. Don’t
change rows. Don’t eat too many.” Mesmerized
by the largesse, the children squat and pull
and pick handfuls of rich scarlets, half
for the baskets, half for avid mouths.
Soon, whole faces are stained.
A crop this big begs for plunder. Ripeness
wants to be ravished, as udders of cow when hard,
the blue-veined bags distended, ache to be stripped.
Hunkered in mud between the rows, sun burning
the backs of our necks, we grope for, and rip loose
soft nippled heads. If they bleed—too soft—
let them stay. Let them rot in the heat.
When, hidden away in a damp hollow under moldy
leaves, I come upon a clump of heart-shapes
once red, now spiderspit-gray, intact but empty,
still attached to their dead stems—
families smothered as at Pompeii—I rise
and stretch. I eat one more big ripe lopped
head. Red-handed, I leave the field.
Women
BY MAY SWENSON
Women Or they
 should beshould be
pedestalslittle horses
 moving those wooden
pedestalssweet
 moving oldfashioned
to thepainted
 motions rocking
of men	horses
the gladdest things in the toyroom
 The feelingly
pegs and then
 of theirunfeelingly
ears 	To be
 so familiarjoyfully
and dearridden
 to the trustingrockingly
fists ridden until
 To be chafedthe restored
egos dismount and the legs stride away
Immobile	willing
 sweetlipped to be set
sturdy into motion
 and smilingWomen
women should be
 should alwayspedestals
be waitingto men
The Curse
BY J. M. SYNGE
To a sister of an enemy of the author's who disapproved of 'The Playboy'
Lord, confound this surly sister,
Blight her brow with blotch and blister,
Cramp her larynx, lung, and liver,
In her guts a galling give her.
Let her live to earn her dinners
In Mountjoy with seedy sinners:
Lord, this judgment quickly bring,
And I'm your servant, J. M. Synge.
All Over the Lot
BY JAMES TATE
 
We were at the ballgame when a small child came up to me and thwacked me in my private area. He turned and walked away without a single word. I was in horrible pain for a couple of minutes, then I went looking for the rascal. When I found him he was holding his mother's hand and looking like the picture of innocence. "Is that your son?" I asked of the lady. She shot me a look that could fry eggs, and then she slapped me really hard. "Mind your own business," she screaked. The boy grinned up at me. My old tweed vest was infested with fleas. I started walking backwards. People were shoving me this way and that. To each I replied, "God, I love this game, I love this game."

How the Pope is Chosen 
By James Tate
Any poodle under ten inches high is a toy. 
Almost always a toy is an imitation 
of something grown-ups use. 
Popes with unclipped hair are called “corded popes.” 
If a Pope’s hair is allowed to grow unchecked, 
it becomes extremely long and twists 
into long strands that look like ropes. 
When it is shorter it is tightly curled. 
Popes are very intelligent. 
There are three different sizes. 
The largest are called standard Popes. 
The medium-sized ones are called miniature Popes. 
I could go on like this, I could say: 
“He is a squarely built Pope, neat, 
well-proportioned, with an alert stance 
and an expression of bright curiosity,” 
but I won’t. After a poodle dies 
all the cardinals flock to the nearest 7-Eleven. 
They drink Slurpies until one of them throws up 
and then he’s the new Pope. 
He is then fully armed and rides through the wilderness alone, 
day and night in all kinds of weather. 
The new Pope chooses the name he will use as Pope, 
like “Wild Bill” or “Buffalo Bill.” 
He wears red shoes with a cross embroidered on the front. 
Most Popes are called “Babe” because 
growing up to become a Pope is a lot of fun. 
All the time their bodies are becoming bigger and stranger, 
but sometimes things happen to make them unhappy. 
They have to go to the bathroom by themselves, 
and they spend almost all of their time sleeping. 
Parents seem incapable of helping their little popes grow up. 
Fathers tell them over and over again not to lean out of windows, 
but the sky is full of them. 
It looks as if they are just taking it easy, 
but they are learning something else. 
What, we don’t know, because we are not like them. 
We can’t even dress like them. 
We are like red bugs or mites compared to them. 
We think we are having a good time cutting cartoons out of the paper, 
but really we are eating crumbs out of their hands. 
We are tiny germs that cannot be seen under microscopes. 
When a Pope is ready to come into the world, 
we try to sing a song, but the words do not fit the music too well. 
Some of the full-bodied popes are a million times bigger than us. 
They open their mouths at regular intervals. 
They are continually grinding up pieces of the cross 
and spitting them out. Black flies cling to their lips. 
Once they are elected they are given a bowl of cream 
and a puppy clip. Eyebrows are a protection 
when the Pope must plunge through dense underbrush
in search of a sheep.
It Happens Like This
by James Tate	
I was outside St. Cecelia’s Rectory smoking a cigarette when a goat appeared beside me. It was mostly black and white, with a little reddish brown here and there. When I started to walk away, it followed. I was amused and delighted, but wondered what the laws were on this kind of thing. There’s a leash law for dogs, but what about goats? People smiled at me and admired the goat. “It’s not my goat,” I explained. “It’s the town’s goat. I’m just taking my turn caring for it.” “I didn’t know we had a goat,” one of them said. “I wonder when my turn is.” “Soon,” I said. “Be patient. Your time is coming.” The goat stayed by my side. It stopped when I stopped. It looked up at me and I stared into its eyes. I felt he knew everything essential about me. We walked on. A police- man on his beat looked us over. “That’s a mighty fine goat you got there,” he said, stopping to admire. “It’s the town’s goat,” I said. “His family goes back three-hundred years with us,” I said, “from the beginning.” The officer leaned forward to touch him, then stopped and looked up at me. “Mind if I pat him?” he asked. “Touching this goat will change your life,” I said. “It’s your decision.” He thought real hard for a minute, and then stood up and said, “What's his name?” “He’s called the Prince of Peace,” I said. “God! This town is like a fairy tale. Everywhere you turn there’s mystery  and wonder. And I’m just a child playing cops and robbers forever. Please forgive me if I cry.” “We forgive you, Officer,” I said. “And we understand why you, more than anybody, should never touch the Prince.” The goat and I walked on. It was getting dark and we were beginning to wonder where we would spend the night.
The Cowboy
BY JAMES TATE
Someone had spread an elaborate rumor about me, that I was
in possession of an extraterrestrial being, and I thought I knew who
it was. It was Roger Lawson. Roger was a practical joker of the
worst sort, and up till now I had not been one of his victims, so
I kind of knew my time had come. People parked in front of my
house for hours and took pictures. I had to draw all my blinds
and only went out when I had to. Then there was a barrage of
questions. “What does he look like?" “What do you feed him?” “How
did you capture him?” And I simply denied the presence of an
extraterrestrial in my house. And, of course, this excited them
all the more. The press showed up and started creeping around
my yard. It got to be very irritating. More and more came and
parked up and down the street. Roger was really working overtime
on this one. I had to do something. Finally, I made an announcement.
I said, “The little fellow died peacefully in his sleep at 11:02
last night.” “Let us see the body,” they clamored. “He went up
in smoke instantly,” I said. “I don’t believe you,” one of them
said. “There is no body in the house or I would have buried it
myself,” I said. About half of them got in their cars and drove
off. The rest of them kept their vigil, but more solemnly now.
I went out and bought some groceries. When I came back about an
hour later another half of them had gone. When I went into the kitchen
I nearly dropped the groceries. There was a nearly transparent
fellow with large pink eyes standing about three feet tall. “Why
did you tell them I was dead? That was a lie,” he said. “You
speak English,” I said. “I listen to the radio. It wasn’t very
hard to learn. Also we have television. We get all your channels.
I like cowboys, especially John Ford movies. They’re the best,”
he said. “What am I going to do with you?” I said. “Take me
to meet a real cowboy. That would make me happy,” he said. “I
don’t know any real cowboys, but maybe we could find one. But
people will go crazy if they see you. We’d have press following
us everywhere. It would be the story of the century,” I said.
“I can be invisible. It’s not hard for me to do,” he said.
“I’ll think about it. Wyoming or Montana would be our best bet, but
they’re a long way from here,” I said. “Please, I won’t cause
you any trouble,” he said. “It would take some planning,” I said.
I put the groceries down and started putting them away. I tried
not to think of the cosmic meaning of all this. Instead, I
treated him like a smart little kid. “Do you have any sarsaparilla?”
he said. “No, but I have some orange juice. It’s good for you,”
I said. He drank it and made a face. “I’m going to get the maps
out,” I said. “We’ll see how we could get there.” When I came
back he was dancing on the kitchen table, a sort of ballet, but
very sad. “I have the maps,” I said. “We won’t need them. I just
received word. I’m going to die tonight. It’s really a joyous
occasion, and I hope you’ll help me celebrate by watching The
Magnificent Seven,” he said. I stood there with the maps in my
hand. I felt an unbearable sadness come over me. “Why must
you die?” I said. “Father decides these things. It is probably
my reward for coming here safely and meeting you,” he said. “But
I was going to take you to meet a real cowboy,” I said. “Let’s
pretend you are my cowboy,” he said.
The Motorcyclists
BY JAMES TATE
My cuticles are a mess. Oh honey, by the way, 
did you like my new negligee? It’s a replica 
of one Kim Novak wore in some movie or other. 
I wish I had a foot-long chili dog right now. 
Do you like fireworks, I mean not just on the 4th of July, 
but fireworks any time? There are people 
like that, you know. They’re like people who like 
orchestra music, listen to it any time of day. 
Lopsided people, that’s what my father calls them. 
Me, I’m easy to please. I like ping-gong and bobcats, 
shatterproof drinking glasses, the smell of kerosene, 
the crunch of carrots. I like caterpillars and 
whirlpools, too. What I hate most is being the first 
one at the scene of a bad accident. 
Do I smell like garlic? Are we still in Kansas? 
I once had a chiropractor make a pass at me, 
did I ever tell you that? He said that your spine 
is happiest when you’re snuggling. Sounds kind 
of sweet now when I tell you, but he was a creep. 
Do you know that I have never understood what they meant 
by “grassy knoll.” It sounds so idyllic, a place to go 
to dream your life away, not kill somebody. They 
should have called it something like “the grudging notch.” 
But I guess that’s life. What is it they always say? 
“It’s always the sweetest ones that break your heart.” 
You getting hungry yet, hon? I am. When I was seven 
I sat in our field and ate an entire eggplant 
right off the vine. Dad loves to tell that story, 
but I still can’t eat eggplant. He says I’ll be the first 
woman President, it’d be a waste since I talk so much. 
Which do you think the fixtures are in the bathroom 
at the White House, gold or brass? It’d be okay with me 
if they were just brass. Honey, can we stop soon? 
I really hate to say it but I need a lady’s room.
Do Not Go Gentle Into that Good Night
BY DYLAN THOMAS
Do not go gentle into that good night, 
Old age should burn and rave at close of day; 
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Though wise men at their end know dark is right, 
Because their words had forked no lightning they
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright
Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay, 
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight, 
And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way, 
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight
Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay, 
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
And you, my father, there on the sad height, 
Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray. 
Do not go gentle into that good night. 
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Incident
BY NATASHA TRETHEWEY
We tell the story every year—
how we peered from the windows, shades drawn—
though nothing really happened,
the charred grass now green again.
 
We peered from the windows, shades drawn,
at the cross trussed like a Christmas tree,
the charred grass still green. Then
we darkened our rooms, lit the hurricane lamps.
 
At the cross trussed like a Christmas tree,
a few men gathered, white as angels in their gowns.
We darkened our rooms and lit hurricane lamps,
the wicks trembling in their fonts of oil.
 
It seemed the angels had gathered, white men in their gowns.
When they were done, they left quietly. No one came.
The wicks trembled all night in their fonts of oil;
by morning the flames had all dimmed.
 
When they were done, the men left quietly. No one came.
Nothing really happened.
By morning all the flames had dimmed.
We tell the story every year.
A Poet’s Death
BY DAVID TRINIDAD
Rachel Sherwood 
1954-1979 
"What can you say about a twenty-five-year-old girl who died?" 
—Erich Segal, Love Story
The first time we talked was in the rooftop
cafeteria at Cal State Northridge.
Misplaced poets, we sat amidst a crop
of clean-cut freshmen while, round the college,
smog-smudged San Fernando Valley beckoned,
panoramic and bland. I’d just returned
from my debauched year up north—sad, drunken
sex at the baths, in dark parks. You still yearned
for St. David’s, your stint as a foreign
exchange student. In Wales, something fearless
woke you up: you drank, wrote, fucked. Now, stuck in
the suburbs, we talked poets, punk rock. This
was the late seventies, disco’s zenith.
We both wanted to look like Patti Smith.
We both wanted to look like Patti Smith
on her Horses album: disheveled, pale,
thin, intense. You were scanning Meredith’s
“Modern Love” for British Lit. I thought stale
anyone before Sexton. You laughed, threw
back your head. I puffed a Marlboro Light.
In truth, you were too hearty, and I too
uptight, to do punk. I praised, as twilight
dimmed the gray valley, a poem you’d read
at the student reading: a pitcher cracks,
foreshadows a car crash. The skyline bled
behind you. I’d also read that night—racked
with stage fright, trembling uncontrollably.
You seemed at ease, more confident than me.
You seemed at ease, more confident than me,
more independent. Lived on Amigo
Avenue with a roommate, a moody
science major; and your alter ego,
a tomcat named Baby Tubbs. Still at home,
I had no wheels. You drove a battered white
hatchback full of newspapers, beer cans, comb,
brush, books—half wastebasket, half purse. One night
early on, we split a fifth of scotch, spread
your tarot cards on the living room floor.
You predicted long life for me, then said
of yourself: “I might make twenty-five.” Your
roommate walked by, shot a look. Later, I
passed out beneath Lord Byron’s watchful eye.
Passed out beneath Lord Byron’s watchful eye—
the poster tacked above your secondhand
couch—I dreamt I was falling down the side
of a mountain, a scarecrow, twisted and
limp, limbs ripped, bouncing from rock to rock. On
every wall an idol: Toulouse-Lautrec
cancan in kitchen, young Chatterton’s wan
figure over your desk. Shuffling the deck,
you asked the same question, drew the same black
card: Death. Together we consulted all
your oracles: Ouija board, zodiac,
I Ching, palm, a fickle Magic 8 Ball.
Hoping for more time, you inquired, believed
like a convict praying for a reprieve.
Like a convict praying for a reprieve,
you were more alive than the complacent
suburbanites I despised. Drunk and peeved
at the world, I started an argument
that ended with you hurling a full Coors
at me as I fumed down your stairs. Four weeks
passed before we spoke, a rift I endured
by writing a poem about the freak-
ish night a black cloud followed us—we lit
candles, toasted oblivion. Battle
scarred, we entered the undergraduate
poetry contest at Northridge. Daniel
Halpern guest judged...or was it May Swenson?
After your death, I’d be happy you won.
What can you say about a twenty-five-
year-old girl who died? That as a child she
loved horses. And dogs. And cats. That Monty
Python made her laugh. That she was alive
to the disruptions of her time. That she
liked Byron, Rod Stewart, Mozart, Waugh, Poe,
Keats, the Cars. That she lived on Amigo
and was my friend. That she once threw her keys
in anger; once threw a New Yorker, shout-
ing “I hate John Ashbery!” And that she
once, after a speed- and scotch-fueled orgy—
Some Girls blasting, her last boyfriend passed out
beside us—straddled, rode me like a horse.
Rachel, can I say this: your cunt felt coarse.
After your death, I’d be happy you won
the contest—at least you had that. “Don’t turn
on me,” you pleaded. Losing wasn’t fun,
but I couldn’t begrudge you your prize. Burned
out from an abortion, a vicious bite—
a German shepherd lunged at your nose, slit
its tip—and a violent unrequit-
ed affair with your “Don J,” a closet
case obsessed with Kerouac, you spoke of
making a change. By then it was summer:
Blondie on the car radio, Fourth of
July, craving fireworks. I remember
headlights; reaching for the steering wheel, you.
Next thing I knew, I woke in ICU. 
Next thing I knew, I woke in ICU:
machines beeping around me, doctors and
nurses hovering in an eerie blue
light. Tube down my throat, I scrawled, with bruised hand,
your name, question mark. My sister was steered
in, wept to tell you were dead. The night they
moved me to a private room, you appeared,
pulsating white presence, in the hallway
outside my door. “I’m all right,” you said, “You
don’t have to worry about me.” I’d lie
there in traction for six weeks, almost two
decades ago, a ghost that fell from my
own scarecrow dream, numb to that deadly drop.
The first time we talked was on a rooftop.
Topeka, Topeka
BY NICK TWEMLOW
Topeka, half the moon is rotten with shadows pooling in the Sea of Topeka.
Topeka, where first I wet my brain with a 40oz bottle of Topeka.
Topeka, is place name, is damn shame, is a mirror made of sand & Topeka.
Topeka, you are substandard. I am not. Yet I’m the one on my hands & knees, searching for the lost keys in the prairie grass, ripped on acid, loving the fallacy that the black keys equal melancholy, the black keys being Topeka.
Topeka, miscast capital, you’re no more political than a handshake with your dream-self upon waking, in my case dream-self lives & dies in Topeka.
Topeka, the sickness cannot be cured of Topeka.
Topeka, tigers laze about the yards, a man with a box balanced on his head, his possessions stuffed to brimming, trots down Topeka Ave.
Topeka, the sickness will go unnoticed. The vaccine is composed of rare sentiments, the kind that love & hate with equal abandon, love & hate, love & hate, love & hate. Topeka.
Topeka, there was a night when the moon didn’t appear but it appeared everywhere else in the world, what happened that night? Topeka?
Topeka, I fear for your life, the intersection of 29th & California is a portal to Hell. I died there twenty times in my youth. Today, driving through, I toss a bouquet of roses to mark my third death, the one that had a soundtrack I can’t shake free. My sister sings it from the shower every morning. Forecast calls for occasional showers, with the possibility of late-morning sleet, in Topeka.
Topeka, cast off the reliquaries! Call your men to war! Me?I’ll be tugging one last hit from the bong I fashioned out of the shrapnel of Topeka.
Topeka, pop. rarely exceeds one, as in each trip home happens in rewind, stepping back across the creek, bird in hand throwing up the worm, further back, unbreakingits wing, bird flying off as if resurrected but from among the living, there I am, eight years old, seven, six, now a slug of semen sucked back into my father, now, as the waters roll back across the plains toward the river, a dog coughs up water, lifts its head, sees nothing, puts its head back down, this, Topeka, is your history, although it never happened.

by Craig Arnold
 I’m cooking Thai—you bring the beer.
The same order, although it’s been a year
—friendships based on food are rarely stable.
 We should have left ours at the table
 where it began, and went to seed,
that appetite we shared, based less in need
than boredom—always at the cheapest restaurants,
 Thai, Szechwan, taking our chance
with gangs and salmonella—what was hot?
 The five-starred curries? The pencilled out
 entrees?—the first to break a sweat
would leave the tip. I raise the knocker, let
it fall, once, twice, and when the door is opened
 I can’t absorb, at first, what happened
—face loosened a notch, eyes with the gloss
 of a fever left to run its course
too long, letting the unpropped skin collapse
 in a wrinkled heap. Only the lips
 I recognize—dry, cracked, chapped
from licking. He looks as though he’s slept
a week in the same clothes. Come in, kick back
 he says, putting my warm six-pack
of Pale & Bitter into the fridge to chill.
 There’s no music. I had to sell
the stereo to support my jones, he jokes
 meaning the glut of good cookbooks
that cover the whole wall, in stacked milk crates
 six high, nine wide, two deep. He grates
 unripe papaya into a bowl,
fires off questions—When did you finish school?
 Why not? Still single?—Why? That dive
that served the ginger eels, did it survive?
I don’t get out much. Shall we go sometime?
 He squeezes the quarters of a lime
into the salad, adds a liberal squirt
 of chili sauce. I won’t be hurt
if you don’t want seconds. It’s not as hot
 as I would like to make it, but
you always were a bit of a lightweight.
 Here, it’s finished, try a bite.
 He holds a forkful of the crisp
green shreds for me to take. I swallow, gasp,
 choke—pins and needles shoot
through mouth and throat, a heat so absolute
 as to seem freezing. I know better
not to wash it down with ice water
—it seems to cool, but only spreads the fire—
 I can only bite my lip and swear
 quietly to myself, so caught
up in our old routine—What? This is hot?
 You’re sweating. Care for another beer?
—it doesn’t occur to me that he’s sincere
until, my eyes watering, half in rage,
 I open the door and find the fridge
stacked full with little jars of curry paste,
 arranged by color, labels faced
 carefully outward, some pushed back
to make room for the beer—no milk, no take-
out cartons of gelatinous chow mein,
 no pickles rotting in green brine,
not even a jar of moldy mayonnaise.
 —I see you’re eating well these days,
 I snap, pressing the beaded glass
of a beer bottle against my neck, face,
 temples, anywhere it will hurt
enough to draw the fire out, and divert
 attention from the fear that follows
close behind … He stares at me, the hollows
under his eyes more prominent than ever. 
 —I don’t eat much these days. The flavor
has gone out of everything, almost.
 For the first time it’s not a boast.
 You know those small bird chili pods—the type
you wear surgical gloves to chop,
 then soak your knife and cutting board
in vinegar? A month ago I scored
 a fresh bag—they were so ripe
I couldn’t cut them warm, I had to keep
them frozen. I forgot what I had meant
 to make, that night—I’d just cleaned
 the kitchen, wanted to fool around
with some old recipe I’d lost, and found
 jammed behind a drawer—I had
maybe too much to drink. “Can’t be that bad,”
 I remember thinking. “What’s the fuss
about? It’s not as if they’re poisonous…”
Those peppers, I ate them, raw—a big fistful
 shoved in my mouth, swallowed whole,
 and more, and more. It wasn’t hard.
You hear of people getting their eyes charred
to cinders, staring into en eclipse…
 He speaks so quickly, one of his lips
 has cracked, leaks a trickle of blood
along his chin … I never understood.
 I try to speak, to offer some
small shocked rejoinder, but my mouth is numb,
tingling, hurts to move—I called in sick
 next morning, said I’d like to take
 time off. She thinks I’ve hit the bottle.
The high those peppers gave me is more subtle—
 I’m lucid, I remember my full name,
my parents’ birthdays, how to win a game
of chess in seven moves, why which and that
 mean different things. But what we eat,
why, what it means, it’s all been explained
 —Take this curry, this fine-tuned
balance of humors, coconut liquor thinned
 by broth, sour pulp of tamarind
 cut through by salt, set off by fragrant
galangal, ginger, basil, cilantro, mint,
the warp and woof of texture, aubergines
 that barely hold their shape, snap beans
 heaped on jasmine, basmati rice
—it’s a lie, all of it—pretext—artifice
 —ornament—sugar-coating—for…
He stops, expressing heat from every pore
of his full face, unable to give vent
 to any more, and sits, silent,
 a whole minute.—You understand?
Of course, I tell him. As he takes my hand
I can’t help but notice the strength his grip
 has lost, as he lifts it to his lip,
presses it for a second, the torn flesh
 as soft, as tenuous, as ash,
 not in the least harsh or rough,
wreck of a mouth, that couldn’t say enough.
Dream Barker
BY JEAN VALENTINE
We met for supper in your flat-bottomed boat. 
I got there first: in a white dress: I remember
Wondering if you'd come. Then you shot over the bank, 
A Virgilian Nigger Jim, and poled us off
To a little sea-food barker's cave you knew.
What'll you have? you said. Eels hung down, 
Bamboozled claws hung up from the crackling weeds. 
The light was all behind us. To one side
In a dish of ice was a shell shaped like a sand-dollar
But worked with Byzantine blue and gold. What's that?
Well, I've never seen it before, you said, 
And I don't know how it tastes.
Oh well, said I, if it's bad,
I'm not too hungry, are you? We'd have the shell...
I know just how you feel, you said.
And asked for it; we held out our hands. 
Six Dollars! barked the barker, For This Beauty!
We fell down laughing in your flat-bottomed boat, .
And then I woke up: in a white dress: 
Dry as a bone on dry land, Jim, 
Bone dry, old, in a dry land, Jim, my Jim. . .

Counterman
BY PAUL VIOLI
What’ll it be?
Roast beef on rye, with tomato and mayo.
Whaddaya want on it?
A swipe of mayo.
Pepper but no salt.
You got it. Roast beef on rye.
You want lettuce on that?
No. Just tomato and mayo.
Tomato and mayo. You got it.
…Salt and pepper?
No salt, just a little pepper.
You got it. No salt.
You want tomato.
Yes. Tomato. No lettuce.
No lettuce. You got it.
…No salt, right?
Right. No salt.
You got it. Pickle?
No, no pickle. Just tomato and mayo.
And pepper.
Pepper.
Yes, a little pepper.
Right. A little pepper.
No pickle.
Right. No pickle.
You got it.
Next!
Roast beef on whole wheat, please,
With lettuce, mayonnaise and a center slice
Of beefsteak tomato.
The lettuce splayed, if you will,
In a Beaux Arts derivative of classical acanthus,
And the roast beef, thinly sliced, folded
In a multi-foil arrangement
That eschews Bragdonian pretensions
Or any idea of divine geometric projection
For that matter, but simply provides
A setting for the tomato
To form a medallion with a dab
Of mayonnaise as a fleuron.
And—as eclectic as this may sound—
If the mayonnaise can also be applied
Along the crust in a Vitruvian scroll
And as a festoon below the medallion,
That would be swell.
You mean like in the Cathedral St. Pierre in Geneva?
Yes, but the swag more like the one below the rosette
At the Royal Palace in Amsterdam.
You got it.
Next!
Many Houses, Many Windows
Donna Vorreyer
Not my house. Not my windows. Not my sorry 
story, my bitter cherries. Not my laundry, my orange 
peels, my backpack. I should have said not just my house.
Many houses, many windows. Many stories, many fruits 
(pitted and peeled), many bags and pillowcases. I observe 
many houses and live in one. I polish my windows and look 
through others. I do not know why I mentioned fruit. 
I do not eat cherries or oranges, but it sounded like the sort 
of thing that many would understand. My linens get dirty; 
I have a need to carry things. But it is not just my house. 
Think of the doors you have walked through and thought
I’m home. The windows you have opened near your bed 
on a hot night. The lives you would have led 
had one of them been nailed or painted shut.
This Is a Fucking Poem
BY CATHERINE WAGNER
don’t expect too much.
 
Well I expect you to go into the
fucking human tunnel
I’m going.
 
pink grimy glossed
entabulature, welted
and tattooed. Enfolded in
ropy ceiling-hangings
but it isn’t a room,
 
and bumblingly sliding
out, little legs of
 
a little girl, bum on the wall/opening
 
pink legs sticking out like a
hermit crab’s, she’s coming!
 
shudder out the little-girl
legs with a little
girl head mostly eyes, no ears,
bug brain, aimless
 
Send her to school
 
It’s cold, and where should she
go, she will eat her
legs with her mandibles
 
her eyes will retract inside.
 
Stroke her riding hood
Settle down, little
 
nobody will hurtcha
 
by breaking off your little legs,
six little legs,
if you come.
GOD AT FORTY
By Michael Waters
I think God must be reading,
or crumpling love letters, or poking His cramped finger
into the ash of the dead
fire to resurrect the flames and warm His mildewed room.
Rain spatters the cabin roof.
One hushed breeze freshens the crab apple blossoms upstate
where God summers. They're pleasant,
these evenings spent in solitude, though God remembers
each of His former lovers
who steamed exotic meals for wary angels, Thai oil
to relieve the strict boredom
of living with a brooding Being whose creative pulse
drove Him inward, whose silence-
that dour guest-too often graced their bountiful table.
Now God keeps His meals simple,
noodle soup simmered on the single coil, peppered brie
slabbed on chunks of broken bread.
Late afternoons neighbors bring baskets of blueberries,
predict dry weather, then leave.
Near dusk God revises His poems, counting syllables-
traditional forms soothe Him
(though He prefers free verse), lend emotional restraint,
keep Him from stepping over
the border of sentimentality where minor
postmodernists stray. Not God.
His eyes water, the owl's clawed feet loose the poplar branch,
the fire wavers, and He sleeps.
Another shitty day in paradise, He might joke
on scrawled postcards never sent.
And dreams: unclasped bra, sunburnt back, freckled skin peeling.
Ants file the smoke-smudged ceiling.
One mouse scurries from its woodpile shelter, zigzags back.
Then God awakens, opens
His black binder to erase some easy metaphor.
He never answers prayers, but
heeds His morning routine: NPR, knee-bends, java,
then work, always the work, lost
for hours in rough drafts, until the broth boils, the cheese wedge
flicks its furred green tongue of mold,
or the last loaf crumbles, and God's immense loneliness
overwhelms. He scrapes His pocked,
bristly cheek along the splinter-shot table, eyes shut,
allowing His vast yearning
to wash over the planet, cool scouring blankness, that
leaf-lit, resplendent seepage
whose source He sometimes forgets-within Him or without?
Rain quickens the white dwarf pines.
God's manuscript blows open, thumbed leaves riffling, their chirr
the psalm of His rasped breathing.
Did I Miss Anything?
BY TOM WAYMAN 
Nothing. When we realized you weren’t here we sat with our hands folded on our desks in silence, for the full two hours   Everything. I gave an exam worth  40 percent of the grade for this term  and assigned some reading due today  on which I’m about to hand out a quiz  worth 50 percent  Nothing. None of the content of this course has value or meaning Take as many days off as you like: any activities we undertake as a class I assure you will not matter either to you or me and are without purpose   Everything. A few minutes after we began last time  a shaft of light suddenly descended and an angel  or other heavenly being appeared  and revealed to us what each woman or man must do  to attain divine wisdom in this life and  the hereafter  This is the last time the class will meet  before we disperse to bring the good news to all peopleon earth.  Nothing. When you are not present how could something significant occur?   Everything. Contained in this classroom  is a microcosm of human experience  assembled for you to query and examine and ponder  This is not the only place such an opportunity has been gathered   but it was one place   And you weren’t here
What Saves Us
by Bruce Weigl
We are wrapped around each other in 
the back of my father's car parked 
in the empty lot of the high school 
of our failures, the sweat on her neck 
like oil. The next morning I would leave 
for the war and I thought I had something 
coming for that, I thought to myself 
that I would not die never having 
been inside her long body. I pulled 
her skirt above her waist like an umbrella 
inside out by the storm. I pulled 
her cotton panties up as high as 
she could stand. I was on fire. Heaven 
was in sight. We were drowning on our 
tongues and I tried to tear my pants off 
when she stopped so suddenly 
we were surrounded only by my shuddering
and by the school bells grinding in the 
empty halls. She reached to find something, 
a silver crucifix on a silver 
chain, the tiny savior's head hanging 
and stakes through his hands and his feet. 
She put it around my neck and held 
me so long the black wings of my heart 
were calmed. We are not always right
about what we think will save us. 
I thought that dragging the angel down would 
save me, but instead I carried the crucifix 
in my pocket and rubbed it on my 
face and lips nights the rockets roared in.
People die sometimes so near you 
you feel them struggling to cross over, 
the deep untangling, of one body from another. 

Twelve Epistles from Letter’s To Wendy’s 
by Joe Wenderoth
August 19, 1996 
Today I was thinking that it might be nice to be able, in one’s last days, to move into a Wendy’s. Perhaps a Wendy’s life-support system could even be created and given a Wendy’s slant; liquid fries, for instance, and burgers and Frosties continually dripped into one’s vegetable dream locust. It would intensify the visits of the well, too, to see such a care is being taken for their destiny.
 August 26, 1996 
Very high on marijuana brownies, I could not speak today at the register. I kept stepping aside for other customers and staring hard at the menu. I was overwhelmed by the chicken sandwich pictured there, but no words for it. I kept saying ’there, that one… the man dressed like a woman.“ It’s hard to get served when on understands the signifier as a process. 
August 27, 1996
Still high on those brownies, but coming down. I’ve eaten, in the past twenty-four hours, so very many burgers and chicken sandwiches. The Sea of Coke is heavy today with meat- its cold swells with the meaty goodness that objects to language. Some kids drift by, talking. One of them says "that sucks dead donkey dicks,” and the other agrees. Imagine. 
September 5, 1996
Naturally I think about smashing the skulls and rib-cages of the other customers. They stand in line so smug-like they were safe, out-side the desires of or for an other. It’s as if, for them, there is no other’s desire- as if desire was one thing, and was ours. Restraining myself is dishonest. It’s a way of maintaining a keen sense of the unforeseeable injuries which shall certainly reunite us. 
 October 8, 1996
It would bring me to despair to think that I could get a Frosty in my own kitchen. I need to believe a frosty can only be gotten outside of where I ordinarily dwell. To be constantly in the place of real Frosties- this is unthinabke, somehow unbearable. The fact is this: to be a subject of language is to desire an Event, and an Event needs to be nothing to move out of, to seem to begin. 
 November 17, 1996 
I eavesdrop on people at Wendy’s. I notice they never talk about their assholes. It’s not that I think an asshole, as an abstract (as Platonic form if you will), is so interesting. It's specific assholes that are interesting - my asshole as compared with Nick’s, yours as compared with Ted’s or Mary’s. How one experiences another’s asshole speaks volumes- it seems selfish not to make these volumes readily available. 
 November 25, 1996 
This idiotic notion that one should love the other customers. Love here really means: agree, for the time being, not to attack. People pretend, thought, that each customer is an irreplaceable piece of some priceless puzzle- like the death of each customer is significant for every other customer. It’s just not true; one cannot love what one does not know, and - fortunately- one knows very little. 
 December 27, 1996 
I can say without hesitation that if Wendy’s ever started to “deliver” i would end my life. And in a way, my suicide would mimic Wendy’s decision to “deliver.” That is, I would decide that my blood, which, in my body, made sense, should flow out in to the dust, where it makes just more dust. Our homes are dust?you ask. Yes, our homes are dust. Don’t pretend you are surprised. 
January 3, 1997 
I’ve been sort of hesitant to mention this, but i believe that one of your employees- you must know the one I speak of - is a beaver. It’s impossible to look into her face, to hear the sounds she makes, and to see the way she moves, the way she carries bits of wood, and to not feel that this is a beaver. I’ve not mentioned this before because, obviously, beavers are powerful creatures.
 January 19, 1997 
These fucking teeny-bopper cunts- they’ll steal your man as soon as look at you. Even if you don’t have a man, they’ll steal him. They’ll steal him and they’ll take him back to their fucking teeny-bopper bed-room. They they’ll suck his dick real slow as thought they’ve never sucked a dick before and they’ll say, “its so big!” even if it isn’t. And then afterwards they’ll act like they never said it was big at all. 
March 14, 1997 
As I look around the restaurant at all the beautiful folks enjoying themselves, I wonder what catastrophe awaits each one. Young man, will your heart explode? Will your intestines fill with blood? Perhaps a seizure on a boat in the middle of a lake. The sun shinning down. The stars concealed once and for all. I always feel less anxious when I recognize that the collision is already well under way. 
 June 28, 1997 
My previous statements were made in haste. I was hungry and confused, and i longed for purpose. I wanted to seem like i was in the process of focusing in on something important. I wanted to feel purpose rising like an ancient city from the excavator’s pick and shovel. I wanted this so much that I rushed- I swung my pick wildly, and I brought a great delicate city to the dust it had always verged on. 
A Barred Owl
BY RICHARD WILBUR
The warping night air having brought the boom
Of an owl’s voice into her darkened room,
We tell the wakened child that all she heard
Was an odd question from a forest bird,
Asking of us, if rightly listened to,
“Who cooks for you?” and then “Who cooks for you?”
Words, which can make our terrors bravely clear,
Can also thus domesticate a fear,
And send a small child back to sleep at night
Not listening for the sound of stealthy flight
Or dreaming of some small thing in a claw
Borne up to some dark branch and eaten raw.
The Writer
 
by Richard Wilbur
 
In her room at the prow of the house
Where light breaks, and the windows are tossed with linden,
My daughter is writing a story.
 
I pause in the stairwell, hearing
From her shut door a commotion of typewriter-keys
Like a chain hauled over a gunwale.
 
Young as she is, the stuff
Of her life is a great cargo, and some of it heavy:
I wish her a lucky passage.
 
But now it is she who pauses,
As if to reject my thought and its easy figure.
A stillness greatens, in which
 
The whole house seems to be thinking,
And then she is at it again with a bunched clamor
Of strokes, and again is silent.
 
I remember the dazed starling
Which was trapped in that very room, two years ago;
How we stole in, lifted a sash
 
And retreated, not to affright it;
And how for a helpless hour, through the crack of the door,
We watched the sleek, wild, dark
 
And iridescent creature
Batter against the brilliance, drop like a glove
To the hard floor, or the desk-top,
 
And wait then, humped and bloody,
For the wits to try it again; and how our spirits
Rose when, suddenly sure,
 
It lifted off from a chair-back,
Beating a smooth course for the right window
And clearing the sill of the world.
 
It is always a matter, my darling,
Of life or death, as I had forgotten.I wish
What I wished you before, but harder.
 
Between Walls
BY WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS
the back wings
of the
hospital where
nothing
will grow lie
cinders
in which shine
the broken
pieces of a green
bottle
Complete Destruction
BY WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS
It was an icy day.
We buried the cat,
then took her box
and set fire to it
in the back yard.
Those fleas that escaped
earth and fire
died by the cold.
Danse Russe
BY WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS
If I when my wife is sleeping
and the baby and Kathleen
are sleeping
and the sun is a flame-white disc
in silken mists
above shining trees,—
if I in my north room
dance naked, grotesquely
before my mirror
waving my shirt round my head
and singing softly to myself:
“I am lonely, lonely.
I was born to be lonely,
I am best so!”
If I admire my arms, my face,
my shoulders, flanks, buttocks
against the yellow drawn shades,—
Who shall say I am not
the happy genius of my household?
Love Song
BY WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS
I lie here thinking of you:—
 
the stain of love
is upon the world!
Yellow, yellow, yellow
it eats into the leaves,
smears with saffron
the horned branches that lean
heavily
against a smooth purple sky!
There is no light
only a honey-thick stain
that drips from leaf to leaf
and limb to limb
spoiling the colors
of the whole world—
 
you far off there under
the wine-red selvage of the west!

Do-rag
BY PHILLIP B. WILLIAMS
O darling, the moon did not disrobe you.
You fell asleep that way, nude
and capsized by our wine, our Bump
‘n’ Grind shenanigans. Blame it
on whatever you like; my bed welcomes 
whomever you decide to be: thug-
mistress, poinsettia, John Doe 
in the alcove of my dreams. You
can quote verbatim an entire album
of Bone Thugs-n-Harmony
with your ass in the air. There’s nothing
wrong with that. They mince syllables
as you call me yours. You don’t 
like me but still invite me to your home
when your homies aren’t near
enough to hear us crash into each other 
like hours. Some men have killed 
their lovers because they loved them
so much in secret that the secret kept 
coming out: wife gouging her husband 
with suspicion, churches sneering
when an usher enters. Never mind that.
The sickle moon turns the sky into 
a man’s mouth slapped sideways 
to keep him from spilling what no one would
understand: you call me God when it 
gets good though I do not exist to you 
outside this room. Be yourself or no one else 
here. Your do-rag is camouflage-patterned 
and stuffed into my mouth.
Homan and Chicago Ave.
BY PHILLIP B. WILLIAMS
Cross the blood 
that quilts your busted lip 
with the tender tip 
of   your tongue. That lip’s 
blood is brackish and white 
meat flares from the black 
swell. You crossed your mama’s 
mind so call her sometimes. 
She dreams your dead daddy 
still puts his hands on her 
waist. She calls his name 
then crosses herself, calls 
the police then crosses 
her fingers. Cross me 
and get cut across your cheek, 
its fat bag full of   bad words 
and cheap liquor you hide 
from your badass kids. Make 
a wish for bad weather 
when the hoodlums get to shooting 
in a good summer’s heat. 
Cross the territory between 
two gangs and feel eyes stare 
and cross in a blur of crosshairs. 
When a shot man lands 
in the garden of trash the block 
flares up like an appetite 
spurred on by the sight 
of prey, by the slurred 
prayer of a man so death-close 
he sees buzzards burrow 
their bladed beaks into 
his entry wound. Tune 
the trumpets. Make way through 
dusk’s clutter. After death 
the dead cross over into song, 
their bones tuning-forked 
into vibrancy. Cross your lips, 
mutiny against all speech 
when a corpse starts singing 
despite its leaded larynx. Don’t 
say miracle when butterflies 
break from a death-gaped skull, 
rout the sky, and scatter.
Of Darker Ceremonies
BY PHILLIP B. WILLIAMS
After “E. 1999 Eternal” by Bone Thugs-n-Harmony
Dear god of armed robberies and puff-puff-pass,
a chalk outline unpeels from the street, smashes 
every windshield, and leaves florid temples of crack 
on porches. Burnt-black pleats of   joint-pressed lips
prophesied your return. Please accept these nickel bags 
as offerings. Brick bastions of piss-stench thresholds 
and boarded windows require a weekly sacrifice.
Is there a Tarot card called “The Corner,” a shrike 
shown lifting a corpse from the pike of a middle finger?
Children speak to their murdered brothers with a cereal box 
and construction paper cut into a Ouija’s tongue that licks 
yes when asked if   liquor could polish a skull in a way 
pleasing to the dead, licks no when asked for a name.
Sonnet in Search of an Author
BY WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS
Nude bodies like peeled logs
sometimes give off a sweetest
odor, man and woman
under the trees in full excess
matching the cushion of
aromatic pine-drift fallen
threaded with trailing woodbine
a sonnet might be made of it
Might be made of it! odor of excess
odor of pine needles, odor of
peeled logs, odor of no odor
other than trailing woodbine that
has no odor, odor of a nude woman
sometimes, odor of a man.
Spring and All [By the road to the contagious hospital]
By William Carlos Williams
I  By the road to the contagious hospital under the surge of the blue mottled clouds driven from the northeast-a cold wind.Beyond, the waste of broad, muddy fields brown with dried weeds, standing and fallen  patches of standing water the scattering of tall trees  All along the road the reddish purplish, forked, upstanding, twiggy stuff of bushes and small trees with dead, brown leaves under them leafless vines--  Lifeless in appearance, sluggish dazed spring approaches--  They enter the new world naked, cold, uncertain of all save that they enter.All about them the cold, familiar wind--  Now the grass, tomorrow the stiff curl of wildcarrot leaf One by one objects are defined-- It quickens:clarity, outline of leaf  But now the stark dignity of entrance-Still, the profound change has come upon them:rooted, they grip down and begin to awaken
Encounter in the Local Pub
BY ELEANOR WILNER
Unlike Francis Bacon, we no longer believe in the little patterns we make of the chaos of history.
 	—Overheard remark
As he looked up from his glass, its quickly melting ice,
into the bisected glowing demonic eyes of the goat,
he sensed that something fundamental had shifted,
or was done. As if, after a life of enchantment, he
had awakened, like Bottom, wearing the ears of an ass,
and the only light was a lanthorn, an ersatz moon.
It was not that the calendar hadn’t numbered the days
with an orbital accuracy, its calculations
exact, but like a man who wants to hang a hammock
in his yard, to let its bright net cradle him, but only
has one tree, so he—wild and aware of it—knew
he had lost the order he required, and with it, rest—
his thoughts only a sagging bundle of loose ends,
and the heart, a naked animal in search of a pelt,
that once fell for every Large Meaning it could
wrap itself in, as organs are packed in ice for transit
from one ending to the next, an afterlife of parts—and
the whole? Exorbitant claim—not less than all,
and oddly spelled; its ear rhyme is its opposite,
the great hole in the heart of things. The goat,
he noticed, had a rank smell, feral. Unnerved,
he looks away, watches the last of his ice
as it melts, the way some godlike eye might see
the mighty glaciers in a slow dissolve back into sea.
He notes how incommensurate the simile, a last
attempt to dignify his shaking gaze, and reaches
for the bill; he’s damned if the goat will pay.
Sestina: Bob
BY JONAH WINTER

According to her housemate, she is out with Bob
tonight, and when she’s out with Bob
you never know when she’ll get in. Bob
is an English professor. Bob
used to be in a motorcycle gang, or something, or maybe Bob
rides a motorcycle now. How radical of you, Bob—
I wish I could ride a motorcycle, Bob,
and also talk about Chaucer intelligently. Bob
is very tall, bearded, reserved. I saw Bob
at a poetry reading last week—he had such a Bob-
like poise—so quintessentially Bob!
The leather jacket, the granny glasses, the beard—Bob!
and you were with my ex-girlfriend, Bob!
And you’re a professor, and I’m nobody, Bob,
nobody, just a flower-deliverer, Bob,
and a skinny one at that, Bob—
and you are a large person, and I am small, Bob,
and I hate my legs, Bob,
but why am I talking to you as if you were here, Bob?
I’ll try to be more objective. Bob
is probably a nice guy. Or that’s what one hears. Bob
is not, however, the most passionate person named Bob
you’ll ever meet. Quiet, polite, succinct, Bob
opens doors for people, is reticent in grocery stores. Bob
does not talk about himself excessively to girlfriends. Bob
does not have a drinking problem. Bob
does not worry about his body, even though he’s a little heavy. Bob
has never been in therapy. Bob,
also, though, does not have tenure—ha ha ha—and Bob
cannot cook as well as I can. Bob
never even heard of paella, and if he had, Bob
would not have changed his facial expression at all. Bob
is just so boring, and what I can’t understand, Bob—
yes I’m talking to you again, is why you, Bob,
could be more desirable than me. Granted, Bob,
you’re more stable, you’re older, more mature maybe but Bob . . .
(Months later, on the Bob-front: My former girlfriend finally married Bob.
Of Bob, she says, “No one has taken me higher or lower than Bob.”
Me? On a dark and stormy sea of Bob-thoughts, desperately, I bob.)
Love is Like a Faucet 
after Billie
By Yolanda Wisher
these vitamin double ds
gonna put cows outta business.
these Sunday bests
if frozen would delight.
unpasteurized & untamed
they swing
in the hammock
of my torso.
they magnetize
my man's hands.
like a Wonder Woman blast
or a web of thunder from
Storm's wrist,
this cocktail
is nurturing napalm
manna dew, Pepto Bismol
for civilization.
you can't outwit these
aureolas.
these nipples are
necrophilia's enemy.
Coltrane couldn't blow
these tumescent tubas.
these are gourds
that'll make a shekere
obsolete,
make an eggplant
go pale.
these breasts
gonna put old Betsy
outta business
& send the men
with goats a-packin.
this love is like a faucet,
it turns on & on.

I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud
BY WILLIAM WORDSWORTH
I wandered lonely as a cloud
That floats on high o'er vales and hills,
When all at once I saw a crowd,
A host, of golden daffodils;
Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.
Continuous as the stars that shine
And twinkle on the milky way,
They stretched in never-ending line
Along the margin of a bay:
Ten thousand saw I at a glance,
Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.
The waves beside them danced; but they
Out-did the sparkling waves in glee:
A poet could not but be gay,
In such a jocund company:
I gazed—and gazed—but little thought
What wealth the show to me had brought:
For oft, when on my couch I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye
Which is the bliss of solitude;
And then my heart with pleasure fills,
And dances with the daffodils.
Approximately Forever
BY C. D. WRIGHT

She was changing on the inside
it was true what had been written
The new syntax of love
both sucked and burned
The secret clung around them
She took in the smell
Walking down a road to nowhere
every sound was relevant
The sun fell behind them now
he seemed strangely moved
She would take her clothes off
for the camera
she said in plain english
but she wasn’t holding that snake
Lake Echo, Dear
BY C. D. WRIGHT
Is the woman in the pool of light 
really reading or just staring 
at what is written
Is the man walking in the soft rain 
naked or is it the rain 
that makes his shirt transparent
The boy in the iron cot 
is he asleep or still
fingering the springs underneath
Did you honestly believe 
three lives could be complete
The bottle of green liquid 
on the sill is it real
The bottle on the peeling sill 
is it filled with green
Or is the liquid an illusion 
of fullness
How summer’s children turn 
into fish and rain softens men
How the elements of summer
nights bid us to get down with each other 
on the unplaned floor
And this feels painfully beautiful 
whether or not
it will change the world one drop
Provinces
-by C.D. Wright
Where the old trees reign with their forward dark 
light stares through a hole in the body’s long 
house. The bed rolls away from the body,
and the body is forced to find a chair. At some hour 
the body sequesters itself in a shuttered room
with no clock. When a clean sheet of paper floats by, 
the head inclines on its axis. It is one of those
common bodies that felt it could not exist without loving, 
but has in fact gone on and on without love.
Like a cave that has stopped growing, we don’t call it dead, 
but dormant. Now the body is on all fours, one arm 
engaged in pulling hair from a trap, an activity 
the body loathes. When the time comes, the body
feeds on marinated meats and fruits trained to be luscious. 
Once the body had ambitions—to be tall and remain 
soft. No more, but it enjoys rappelling to the water. 
Because the body’s dwelling is stone, perched over water, 
we say the body is privileged. Akin to characters 
in Lawrence books, its livelihood is obscured. It owns 
a horse named Campaign it mounts on foggy morns. 
That was the body’s first lie. It has no horse
and wouldn’t climb on one. Because the body lives
so far from others, it likes reading about checkered lives
on the metrópoli. It likes moving around at night under its dress. 
When it travels, bottles of lotion open in its bags. 
Early in March the big rains came—washing all good thoughts 
from the body’s cracks and chinks. By now the body admits 
it is getting on, and yet, continues to be tormented 
by things being the way they are. Recently the body took 
one of the old trees for a wife, but the union has broken down. 
The light has bored out of the body’s long house. 
Fog envelops its stone flanks. Still the body
enjoys rappelling to the water. And it likes the twenty four-hour stores,
walking up and down the aisles, not putting a thing in its basket.
WHAT DO YOU THINK’S IN THE SHED
By C.D. Wright
A poem inspired by photographer Richard Leo Johnson’s series . . . Once Was Lost . . . .
 
The carpets, the paneling, the overstuffed recliner. Chainsaw carving
on the TV, kerosene lantern for thunderstorms, girl
lying on the carpet in her shorts, Converses, ankle socks. TV remote
within reach. Stained glass figures in the panes.
A coaster, an ashtray. Tailgates, their trucks, their people, everybody
in short shorts, corrugated buildings, old A/C units,
window fans, toolboxes, decoys, ball caps. Taxidermic squirrel. Rusty wire
fences, chain-link fences. TV cabinet in the dump.
People on their cedar decks, people on their knotted-pine decks. Broken
hunks of concrete. Makeshift sheds. Xmas tree
decorated with dollar bills, Xmas tree decorated with Coke cans, and
a little lizard in a kiddie pool. Antlers. What else.
No one ever reads. Small, necessary, man-made body of water.
Stocked with bass. Large-mouthed. Near Homer.
Local news: the Iliad. What else.
Not a damn thing to be done about it. Tow truck float of teens: skinny
kids, black kids, white kids,
big kids mugging for the camera. Long-tail cars trawling like gators.
Pay phones, cigarette machines, gas pumps,
inner tubes. Ketchup. Food is for wolfing. Young girl by an oil drum
swaddled in a towel. Lord have mercy
it’s hot. Sugar shaker. What else. White people are slow dancing.
White-haired woman washes her husband’s white hair
in kitchen sink. Killer II seated next to a deacon. For a sense of change
furniture gets moved around the room. Churchy men.
Downpour in a parking lot.
Walnut tree in the background. Some can still sew. A tongue sticking out.
In profile: head of a pretty woman rhymed with
head of her dachshund. Pretty round-eyed woman facing her husband
taking her picture driving around
in lessening light. Corrugated fields.
There was a house fire. Terrible. Was there not. There was a burning
house. Everything lost. The photographer
and his family. Lost all of it. He picked up his other ax, his trusty
twelve-string and drove to TN. A man shall we say
of aliases. Starts playing for Blue Note. Interposition and nullification;
integration when the nullifiers aren’t in town.
Friendly zombie stumbling toward us
with quarters in his sockets. Balloons, the smell of balloons. Boy with a
guitar, boy with a dumbbell. Hand puppet,
paper doll, tire swing. What else. Cousins. Firebird stenciled on his hood.
Spillway. Bridge pylons. House parties, drinks in red
plastic cups, beer bottle cozies and dips, sound check in a diminutive gym.
Big hair and funky fur jackets. There was vegetation
was there not. There was
johnson grass. Strong scent of dusty tomatoes off the vine. A furry
moon. What time is it. Does anyone care. Playing
for Blue Note. A pair of barstools, Her highchair. Jesus is coming. Jesus
is knocking on the door. Jesus is the lamb in the room.
Homecoming mum fat as a cabbage. Someone inspects another’s
splinter. Cousins. Here, have some sugar.
Four-stoplight intersection, not a long-tail car parked or stirring.
Surveying her plants. All the country-fried downtowns.
Velvet. Wicker. Faux suede. Polyester.
Nearly enough alcohol for every man, woman, and child. Teetotalers too.
Every Friday and Saturday night. We hear
bullfrogs. Guns and flags. Flags and guns. More flags. More guns. Bonfires.
Mutts. What the hell else. Pass the ketchup. Swaths of bunting
and reams of tablecloths and a line of folding tables. Folding chairs.
PET-milk ballerinas.
There was a house fire. Was there not.
All the sins of the world. Went right up. Barely enough love to go around.
So long as the sun kept blazing and a massive
moon rose in its hallowed path, they couldn’t, they just couldn’t, they
couldn’t not enjoy themselves.
Entry in an Unknown Hand
BY FRANZ WRIGHT
And still nothing happens. I am not arrested. 
By some inexplicable oversight
nobody jeers when I walk down the street.
I have been allowed to go on living in this 
room. I am not asked to explain my presence 
anywhere.
What posthypnotic suggestions were made; and 
are any left unexecuted?
Why am I so distressed at the thought of taking 
certain jobs?
They are absolutely shameless at the bank——
You’d think my name meant nothing to them. Non-
chalantly they hand me the sum I’ve requested,
but I know them. It’s like this everywhere——
they think they are going to surprise me: I, 
who do nothing but wait.
Once I answered the phone, and the caller hung up——
very clever.
They think that they can scare me. 
I am always scared.
And how much courage it requires to get up in the 
morning and dress yourself. Nobody congratulates 
you!
At no point in the day may I fall to my knees and 
refuse to go on, it’s not done.
I go on
dodging cars that jump the curb to crush my hip,
accompanied by abrupt bursts of black-and-white
laughter and applause,
past a million unlighted windows, peered out at 
by the retired and their aged attack-dogs—
toward my place,
the one at the end of the counter, 
the scalpel on the napkin.
Morning Arrives
BY FRANZ WRIGHT
Morning arrives
unannounced
by limousine: the tall 
emaciated chairman
of sleeplessness in person
steps out on the sidewalk
and donning black glasses, ascends 
the stairs to your building
guided by a German shepherd. 
After a couple faint knocks 
at the door, he slowly opens 
the book of blank pages
pointing out
with a pale manicured finger 
particular clauses,
proof of your guilt.
The Lesson
BY FRANZ WRIGHT
Say you finally make it home after a particularly arduous day in eighth grade to find the front door standing open and the furniture gone, and wander awhile through the oddly spacious rooms like a paralytic drowning in the bathtub while the nurse goes to answer the phone. True, you were never the best behaved little girl who ever lived; still, it seems fair to say that this is the wrong surprise party for you. A little later, looking down from somewhere near the ceiling, you observe yourself letting a cheap unwashed wine glass slip from your fingers, bending over to select a large section of it from the kitchen floor and beginning, with intense focus and precision, to inscribe a fairly serious gash in your left wrist. That doesn’t work out so well. Locating a dish towel, though, does keep you occupied, then cleaning up the mess you’ve made. And you refuse to cry. Smart move, you hear a voice say quite distinctly. You might really need those tears someday. And you have been telling yourself the same thing all your life.

THE ONLY ANIMAL
By Franz Wright
The only animal that commits suicide
went for a walk in the park,
basked on a hard bench
in the first star,
traveled to the edge of space
in an armchair
while company quietly
talked and abruptly
returned,
the room empty.
 
The only animal that cries
that takes off its clothes
and reports to the mirror, the one
and only animal
that brushes its own teeth—
 
Somewhere
 
the only animal that smokes a cigarette,
that lies down and flies backward in time,
that rises and walks to a book
and looks up a word
heard the telephone ringing
in the darkness downstairs and decided
to answer no more.
 
And I understand,
too well: how many times
have I made the decision to dwell
from now on
in the hour of my death
(the space I took up here
scarlessly closing like water)
and said I’m never coming back
and yet
 
this morning
I stood once again
in this world, the garden
ark and vacant
tomb of what
I can’t imagine,
between twin eternities,
some sort of wings,
more or less equidistantly
exiled from both,
hovering in the dreaming called
being awake, where
You gave me
in secret one thing
to perceive, the
tall blue starry
 
strangeness of being
here at all.
 
You gave us each in secret something to perceive.
 
Furless now, upright, My banished
and experimental
child
 
You said, though your own heart condemn you
 
I do not condemn you.
Thoughts of a Solitary Farmhouse
BY FRANZ WRIGHT
And not to feel bad about dying. 
Not to take it so personally—
it is only
the force we exert all our lives
to exclude death from our thoughts 
that confronts us, when it does arrive,
as the horror of being excluded— . . .
something like that, the Canadian wind
coming in off Lake Erie
rattling the windows, horizontal snow
appearing out of nowhere
across the black highway and fields like billions of white bees.

A Blessing
 
BY JAMES WRIGHT
 
Just off the highway to Rochester, Minnesota,
Twilight bounds softly forth on the grass.
And the eyes of those two Indian ponies
Darken with kindness.
They have come gladly out of the willows
To welcome my friend and me.
We step over the barbed wire into the pasture
Where they have been grazing all day, alone.
They ripple tensely, they can hardly contain their happiness 
That we have come.
They bow shyly as wet swans. They love each other.
There is no loneliness like theirs. 
At home once more,
They begin munching the young tufts of spring in the darkness. 
I would like to hold the slenderer one in my arms,
For she has walked over to me 
And nuzzled my left hand. 
She is black and white,
Her mane falls wild on her forehead,
And the light breeze moves me to caress her long ear
That is delicate as the skin over a girl’s wrist.
Suddenly I realize
That if I stepped out of my body I would break
Into blossom.
 
 
 

Lying in a Hammock at William Duffy’s Farm in Pine Island, Minnesota
BY JAMES WRIGHT
Over my head, I see the bronze butterfly, 
Asleep on the black trunk,
Blowing like a leaf in green shadow. 
Down the ravine behind the empty house, 
The cowbells follow one another 
Into the distances of the afternoon. 
To my right,
In a field of sunlight between two pines, 
The droppings of last year’s horses 
Blaze up into golden stones.
I lean back, as the evening darkens and comes on. 
A chicken hawk floats over, looking for home.
I have wasted my life.
MILKWEED
James Wright
While I stood here, in the open, lost in myself,
I must have looked a long time
Down the corn rows, beyond grass,
The small house,
White walls, animals lumbering toward the barn.
I look down now. It is all changed.
Whatever it was I lost, whatever I wept for
Was a wild, gentle thing, the small dark eyes
Loving me in secret.
It is here. At a touch of my hand,
The air fills with delicate creatures
From the other world.
The Cap and Bells
BY WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS
The jester walked in the garden: 
The garden had fallen still; 
He bade his soul rise upward 
And stand on her window-sill.
It rose in a straight blue garment, 
When owls began to call:
It had grown wise-tongued by thinking 
Of a quiet and light footfall;
But the young queen would not listen; 
She rose in her pale night-gown; 
She drew in the heavy casement 
And pushed the latches down.
He bade his heart go to her,
When the owls called out no more; 
In a red and quivering garment 
It sang to her through the door.
It had grown sweet-tongued by dreaming 
Of a flutter of flower-like hair;
But she took up her fan from the table 
And waved it off on the air.
'I have cap and bells,’ he pondered, 
'I will send them to her and die’; 
And when the morning whitened 
He left them where she went by.
She laid them upon her bosom,
Under a cloud of her hair,
And her red lips sang them a love-song 
Till stars grew out of the air.
She opened her door and her window, 
And the heart and the soul came through, 
To her right hand came the red one, 
To her left hand came the blue.
They set up a noise like crickets, 
A chattering wise and sweet, 
And her hair was a folded flower 
And the quiet of love in her feet.
The Second Coming
-W.B. Yeats
Turning and turning in the widening gyre
The falcon cannot hear the falconer;
Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world,
The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere
The ceremony of innocence is drowned;
The best lack all conviction, while the worst
Are full of passionate intensity.
Surely some revelation is at hand;
Surely the Second Coming is at hand.
The Second Coming! Hardly are those words out
When a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi
Troubles my sight: somewhere in sands of the desert
A shape with lion body and the head of a man,
A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun,
Is moving its slow thighs, while all about it
Reel shadows of the indignant desert birds.
The darkness drops again; but now I know
That twenty centuries of stony sleep
Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle,
And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,
Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?
Stealing The Scream
BY MONICA YOUN
It was hardly a high-tech operation, stealing The Scream. That we know for certain, and what was left behind-- a store-bought ladder, a broken window, and fifty-one seconds of videotape, abstract as an overture.  And the rest? We don’t know. But we can envision moonlight coming in through the broken window, casting a bright shape over everything--the paintings, the floor tiles, the velvet ropes: a single, sharp-edged pattern;  the figure’s fixed hysteria rendered suddenly ironic by the fact of something happening; houses clapping a thousand shingle hands to shocked cheeks along the road from Oslo to Asgardstrand;  the guards rushing in--too late!--greeted only by the gap-toothed smirk of the museum walls; and dangling from the picture wire like a baited hook, a postcard: “Thanks for the poor security.”  The policemen, lost as tourists, stand whispering in the galleries: ". . .but what does it all mean?” Someone has the answers, someone who, grasping the frame, saw his sun-red face reflected in that familiar boiling sky.
Romanticism 101
BY DEAN YOUNG
Then I realized I hadn’t secured the boat.
Then I realized my friend had lied to me.
Then I realized my dog was gone
no matter how much I called in the rain.
All was change.
Then I realized I was surrounded by aliens
disguised as orthodontists having a convention
at the hotel breakfast bar.
Then I could see into the life of things,
that systems seek only to reproduce
the conditions of their own reproduction.
If I had to pick between shadows
and essences, I’d pick shadows.
They’re better dancers.
They always sing their telegrams.
Their old gods do not die.
Then I realized the very futility was salvation
in this greeny entanglement of  breaths.
Yeah, as if.
Then I realized even when you catch the mechanism,
the trick still works.
Then I came to in Texas
and realized rockabilly would never go away.
Then I realized I’d been drugged.
We were all chasing nothing
which left no choice but to intensify the chase.
I came to handcuffed and gagged.
I came to intubated and packed in some kind of foam.
This too is how ash moves through water.
And all this time the side doors unlocked.
Then I realized repetition could be an ending.
Then I realized repetition could be an ending.
He Said Turn Here
BY DEAN YOUNG
and then Tony showed us the lake
where he had thrown some of his sadness last summer 
and it had dissolved like powder 
so he thought maybe the lake could take 
some of the radiant, aluminum kind 
he had been making lately.
And it did.
It was a perfect lake,
none of the paint had chipped off,
no bolts showing, the arms that Dante 
and Virgil would have to hack through 
not even breaking the surface. 
Mumbling Italian to itself,
it had climbed down two wooden stairs
back to the beach now that the rains were done.
How strange to be water so close to the ocean
yet the only other water you get to talk to 
comes from the sky. Maybe this is why 
it seems so willing to take on
Tony’s sadness which sometimes corrodes 
his friends, which is really
many different sadnesses, smaller 
and smaller, surrounded by more 
and more space, each a world and 
at its core an engine like a bee 
inside a lily, like buzzing inside 
the bee. It seems like nothing 
could change its color although 
we couldn’t tell what color it was, 
it kept changing. In the summer,
Tony says he comes down early each day
and there’s no one around so the lake
barely says a thing when he dives in
and once when his kitchen was on fire in Maine 
and he was asleep, the lake came and bit his hand, 
trying to drag him to safety 
and some nights in New Mexico, 
he can hear it howling,
searching for him in the desert 
so we’re glad Tony has this lake
and we promise to come back in August
and swim with him across, 
maybe even race.

Expecting
KEVIN YOUNG
Grave, my wife lies back, hands cross
her chest, while the doctor searches early
for your heartbeat, peach pit, unripe
plum–pulls out the world’s worst
boom box, a Mr. Microphone, to broadcast
your mother’s lifting belly.
The whoosh and bellows of mama’s body
and beneath it: nothing. Beneath
the slow stutter of her heart: nothing.
The doctor trying again to find you, fragile
fern, snowflake. Nothing.
After, my wife will say, in fear,
impatient, she went beyond her body,
this tiny room, into the ether–
for now, we spelunk for you one last time
lost canary, miner of coal
and chalk, lungs not yet black–
I hold my wife’s feet to keep her here–
and me–trying not to dive starboard
to seek you in the dark water. And there
it is: faint, an echo, faster and further
away than mother’s, all beat box
and fuzzy feedback. You are like hearing
hip-hop for the first time–power
hijacked from a lamppost–all promise.
You couldn’t sound better, break-
dancer, my favourite song bumping
from a passing car. You’ve snuck
into the club underage and stayed!
Only later, much, will your mother
begin to believe your drumming
in the distance–my Kansas City
and Congo Square, this jazz band
vamping on inside her.
I am Trying to Break Your Heart
BY KEVIN YOUNG
I am hoping
to hang your head
on my wall
in shame—
the slightest taxidermy
thrills me. Fish
forever leaping
on the living-room wall—
paperweights made
from skulls
of small animals.
I want to wear
your smile on my sleeve
& break
your heart like a horse
or its leg. Weeks of being
bucked off, then
all at once, you're mine—
Put me down.
I want to call you thine
to tattoo mercy
along my knuckles. I assassin
down the avenue
I hope
to have you forgotten
by noon. To know you
by your knees
palsied by prayer.
Loneliness is a science—
consider the taxidermist's
tender hands
trying to keep from losing
skin, the bobcat grin
of the living.
Ode to Okra
BY KEVIN YOUNG
I like okry cause
it slips, said my old cousin
famously, & I agree— 
all the more filled with awe at all
you can do.Wayward
uncle, you grew up like a weed
yet were so much my age I called
you brother—like an eye
or early autumn you stay
red around the edges
& still green
at the same time. Tender
yet prickly, you gave gifts 
whenever we needed them most—
visited each summer & lingered
much too long, mooching
your way through.
Though some nights I hated you
to us, & yourself, you were true—
stayed stewed,
never fried—the neighborhood
drunk, turned belligerent
& too tough
if ignored. Still
you weep when stirred,
make a gumbo worth 
fasting for. Seventh son,
pilgrim, you once were a slave
I heard, a language
smuggled here in our hair
to teach us home
& what freedom
wasn't. In dusk
I've seen my father
cut you down—you, who
we prayed over each night
making sure, small
steady star, just for you
we saved plenty room. 
Ode to Pork
BY KEVIN YOUNG
I wouldn’t be here
without you. Without you
I’d be umpteen
pounds lighter & a lot
less alive. You stuck
round my ribs even
when I treated you like a dog
dirty, I dare not eat.
I know you’re the blues
because loving you
may kill me—but still you
rock me down slow
as hamhocks on the stove.
Anyway you come
fried, cued, burnt
to within one inch
of your life I love. Babe,
I revere your every
nickname—bacon, chitlin
cracklin, sin.
Some call you murder,
shame’s stepsister—
then dress you up
& declare you white
& healthy, but you always
come back, sauced, to me.
Adam himself gave up
a rib to see yours
piled pink beside him.
Your heaven is the only one
worth wanting—
you keep me all night
cursing your four—
letter name, the next
begging for you again.
Satchmo
BY KEVIN YOUNG
side a—
the face handled
careful, black

wax grooves
going round
in an endless

endless grin—
King Louis
Armstrong

blowing like no
tomorrow.
Oooh hoo

I wanna be
like you-who—
Pops wipes his brow

with a kerchief
as if cleaning
a needle, a skipping

dusty LP.
An ape like me
would love to be

human too.
side b—
his bull

horn muffled,
sounding fog—
labels spun

too fast
to read. Heebie
Jeebies. Is

you is or is
you ain’t—
Satchelmouth

Old Scratch, caught
between the devil
& the deep

blue sea—his Hot Fives
scat, out-play
Beezlebub on a good

day—two horns
twisted
up out his hair—

Reward
BY KEVIN YOUNG
RUN AWAY from this sub- 
scriber for the second time 
are TWO NEGROES, viz. SMART, 
an outlandish dark fellow 
with his country marks 
on his temples and bearing 
the remarkable brand of my 
name on his left breast, last 
seen wearing an old ragged 
negro cloth shirt and breeches 
made of fearnought; also DIDO, 
a likely young wench of a yellow 
cast, born in cherrytime in this 
parish, wearing a mixed coloured 
coat with a bundle of clothes, 
mostly blue, under her one good 
arm. Both speak tolerable plain 
English and may insist on being 
called Cuffee and Khasa respect- 
ively. Whoever shall deliver 
the said goods to the gaoler 
in Baton Rouge, or to the Sugar 
House in the parish, shall receive 
all reasonable charges plus 
a genteel reward besides what 
the law allows. In the mean 
time all persons are strictly 
forbid harbouring them, on pain 
of being prosecuted to the utmost 
rigour of the law. Ten guineas 
will be paid to anyone who can 
give intelligence of their being 
harboured, employed, or enter- 
tained by a white person upon 
his sentence; five on conviction 
of a black. All Masters of vessels 
are warned against carrying them 
out of state, as they may claim 
to be free. If any of the above 
Negroes return of their own 
accord, they may still be for- 
given by 
	ELIZABETH YOUNG.
The Decoration Committee
BY DEAN YOUNG
A poem telling the story of a man shooting a moose
is a narrative poem.
If the poem goes on for a long time and the moose
turns out to be his daughter who got screwed
by the lecherous, jealous gods and the man
then founds a city, it is an epic.
Many say the Age of Epic is behind us,
the rain falls upon the moose corpse
and the murderous, capricious gods seem done with us,
killed or wandered off, and, unattended,
unhouselled, we charge through the bracken
with only the burning hoof print of human love
upon us.Perhaps the long poem you struggle with
is just a long poem as a big storm
need not be a hurricane.When I was a child,
hurricanes, like battleships, were given
exclusively women’s name.Advances
have been made and currently hurricane Bill
is rampaging through Jamaica, an island already
wracked with poor prenatal care.There is still
so much to do.Each is alone, shorn and bleeding
of lip, mouth crammed with feathers, hands full
of torn lace, the curtain rising on all
the people who murdered and loved each other
now bowing arm in arm.A conductor appears,
balding, and the crowd disperses to cafes
to argue and woo.How to know what next to do, 
where move, what does and doesn’t
belong here in a place we’ve been a hundred times
but never noticed the pictures of burning
buildings on the walls.Oh, what was once
a forest is no longer a forest, what was once
a tree is now a wheel, A poem, usually shortish,
which begins, “When I was a child” or
goes on about clouds or trees or lost love:
woe, woe, etc. is a lyric poem.The original
lyre was made from a hollowed-out tortoise shell.
From the tortoise’s point of view,
the lyric was a complete catastrophe
but it has done very well by humans although
I know of no studies concerning if and in how many cases
a lyric poem eases heartache by initiating 1.
The beloved’s return, the door flies open,
the bra unstrapped, the moose dappled
with dew and/or 2. A getting-over-it
happiness at just having written/read the poem
which is about misery in the old way
but also in a new way and then noticing
the pretty barmaid.How little
we know of Sappho beyond the eloquent
snips of limb-loosening Eros.Chervil,
a spice, is mentioned for its tenderrness.
Other examples abound.
Robert Frost’s “Stopping by Woods
on a Snowy Evening” is thought by some
to be about Santa Claus, by other
suicide.Generally, the suicide people
have higher degrees.Anguish seems endless.
The heart however is often frivolous
perhaps as a form of defense
akin to the gaudy coloration of the tender
poison arrow frog.I am beautiful therefore
invulnerable is the message of its body.
In English, there appears to be no rhyme
for “orange.”Many poems fill many books
and in this they resemble the records
of small claims courts.One of the ways
new kinds of poems may be written
is by finding out what people agree is not poetry
and doing that.Where are the timorous mortals
banged by gods?Where are the trees and woe?
Ben Johnson, referring to a disease of sheep,
said that some subjects cannot be made poetic
but then along came the French.
After hours of voodoo drumming, everything
you do may seem like a poem.
Poems cannot be “fixed.”
If at the end only a few people are dead
and the rest mill about the fountains
as if waiting for a wedding, it is a comedy.
Who are the bride and groom?Maybe me,
maybe you.Who cares?Let the doors
burst open upon worlds of light, dogs chasing
brooms, the moose out there somewhere braying
for its mate.Is it not nearly enough to sway
to the invisible music, to watch the wrinkley
waters?To feel within the heart the crushed ball
of aluminum foil?

Mantis
by Louis Zukofsky
Mantis! praying mantis! since your wings’ leaves 
And your terrified eyes, pins, bright, black and poor 
Beg-”look, take it up” (thoughts’ torsion) ! “save it! ” 
I who can’t bear to look, cannot touch, -You- 
You can-but no one sees you steadying lost 
In the cars’ drafts on the lit subway stone. 
Praying mantis, what wind-up brought you, stone 
On which you sometimes prop, prey among leaves 
(Is it love’s food your raised stomach prays?) , lost 
Here, stone holds only seats on which the poor 
Ride, who rising from the news may trample you - 
The shop’s crowds a jam with no flies in it. 
Even the newsboy who now sees knows it 
No use, papers make money, makes stone, stone, 
Banks, “it is harmless, ” he says moving on-You? 
Where will he put you? There are no safe leaves 
To put you back in here, here’s news! too poor 
Like all the separate poor to save the lost. 
Don’t light on my chest, mantis! do-you’re lost, 
Let the poor laugh at my fright, then see it: 
My shame and theirs, you whom old Europe’s poor 
Call spectre, strawberry, by turns; a stone- 
You point-they say-you lead lost children-leaves 
Close in the paths men leave, saved, safe with you. 
Killed by thorns (once men) , who now will save you 
Mantis? what male love bring a fly, be lost 
Within your mouth, prophetess, harmless to leaves 
And hands, faked flower, -the myth: is dead, bones, it 
Was assembled, apes wing in wind: On stone 
Mantis, you will die, touch, beg, of the poor. 
Android, loving beggar, dive to the poor 
As your love would even without head to you, 
Graze like machined wheels, green from off this stone 
And preying on each terrified chest, lost 
Say, I am old as the globe, the moon, it 
Is my old shoe, yours, be free as the leaves. 
Fly, mantis, on the poor, arise like leaves 
The armies of the poor, strength: stone on stone 
And build the new world in your eyes, Save it!

