And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of
           the earth, and daughters were born unto them,
 That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were
           fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.
 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man,
           for that he also is fleset his days shall be an hundred
           and twenty years.
 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after
           that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men,
           and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men
           which were of old, men of renown.
 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth,
           and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was
           only evil continually.
 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth,
           and it grieved him at his heart.
 And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from
           the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping
           thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I
           have made them.
 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.
 These are the generations of Noaoah was a just man and
           perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God.
And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was
           filled with violence.
And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt;
           for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.
And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before
           me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and,
           behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the
           ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.
And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it ohe
           length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth
           of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.
A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou
           finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the
           side thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou
           make it.
And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
           earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life,
           from under heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall
           die.
But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt
           come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy
           sons' wives with thee.
And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort
           shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee;
           they shall be male and female.
 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of
           every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every
           sort shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.
 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou
           shalt gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee,
           and for them.
 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did
           he.
And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into
           the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this
           generation.
 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the
           male and his femalnd of beasts that are not clean by two,
           the male and his female.
 Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female;
           to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth
           forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I
           have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.
 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.
 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters
           was upon the earth.
 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons'
           wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the
           flood.
 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of
           fowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth,
 There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and
           the female, as God had commanded Noah.
And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the
           flood were upon the earth.
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month,
           the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the
           fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of
           heaven were opened.
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and
           Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three
           wives of his sons with them, into the ark;
They, and every beast after his kind, and all the cattle after
           their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the
           earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind, every
           bird of every sort.
And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all
           flesh, wherein is the breath of life.
And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh,
           as God had commanded hind the LORD shut him in.
And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters
           increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the
           earth.
And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the
           earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all
           the high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were
           covered.
 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the
           mountains were covered.

And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl,
           and of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that
           creepeth upon the earth, and every m
            All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was
           in the dry land, died.
 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the
           face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping
           things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed
           from the eartnd Noah only remained alive, and they that
           were with him in the ark.
 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty
           days.
And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the
           cattle that was with him in the arnd God made a wind to
           pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged;
            The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were
           stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;
 And the waters returned from off the earth continuallnd
           after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were
           abated.
 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth
           day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth montn
           the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops
           of the mountains seen.
 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened
           the window of the ark which he had mad And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until
           the waters were dried up from off the earth.
 Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were
           abated from off the face of the ground;
 But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she
           returned unto him into the ark, for the waters were on the
           face of the whole earthen he put forth his hand, and took
           her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.
And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth
           the dove out of the ark;
And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her
           mouth was an olive leaf pluckt ofo Noah knew that the
           waters were abated from off the earth.
And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;
           which returned not again unto him any more.
And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in
           the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were
           dried up from off the eartnd Noah removed the covering of
           the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was
           dry.
And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
           month, was the earth dried.
And God spake unto Noah, saying,
Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy
           sons' wives with thee.
Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of
           all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping
           thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed
           abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon
           the earth.
And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons'
           wives with hiEvery beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and
           whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went
           forth out of the ark.
 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every
           clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt
           offerings on the altar.

And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his
           heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's
           sake; for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his
           youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living,
           as I have done.
            While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
           heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not
           cease.
And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
           fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
            And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every
           beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all
           that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the
           sea; into your hand are they delivered.
 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as
           the green herb have I given you all things.
 But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof,
           shall ye not eat.
 And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the
           hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man;
           at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of
           man.
 Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be she          for in the image of God made he man.
 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly
           in the earth, and multiply therein.
 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,
 And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your
           seed after you;
And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl,
           of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from
           all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.
And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all
           flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither
           shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
           between me and you and every living creature that is with you,
           for perpetual generationI do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a
           covenant between me and the earth.
And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the
           earth, that the bow shall be seen in the clouAnd I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you
           and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall
           no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it,
           that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and
           every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.
And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant,
           which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon
           the earth.
And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem,
           and Ham, and Japhetnd Ham is the father of Canaan.
These are the three sons of Noand of them was the whole
           earth overspread.
 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyar
And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was
           uncovered within his tent.
            And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his
           father, and told his two brethren without.
 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both
           their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness
           of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw
           not their father's nakedness.
 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son
           had done unto him.
 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he
           be unto his brethren.
 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall
           be his servant.
 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of
           Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.
 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty year          and he died.
